UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT
Shaping an 
environmentally sustainable 
and inclusive digital future
Digital   
economy 
report
OVERVIEW
2024

UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT
Shaping an 
environmentally sustainable 
and inclusive digital future
2024
Digital   
economy 
report
OVERVIEW
Geneva, 2024

Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
ii
© 2024, United Nations
This work is available through open access, by complying with the Creative Commons 
licence created for intergovernmental organizations, at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/
by/3.0/igo/.
The designations employed and the presentation of material on any map in this work do not 
imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the United Nations concerning 
the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the 
delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Mention of any firm or licensed process does not imply the endorsement of the United 
Nations.
Photocopies and reproductions of excerpts are allowed with proper credits.
This publication has been edited externally. 
United Nations publication issued by the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development
UNCTAD/DER/2024 (Overview)
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
iii
Note
Within the UNCTAD Division on Technology and Logistics, the E-commerce and Digital 
Economy Branch carries out policy-oriented analytical work on the development implications 
of information and communications technologies (ICTs) and electronic commerce 
(e-commerce). The branch is responsible for the preparation of the Digital Economy 
Report, previously known as the Information Economy Report. The E-commerce and Digital 
Economy Branch promotes international dialogue on issues related to ICTs for development 
and contributes to building developing countries’ capacities to measure e-commerce and 
the digital economy and to design and implement relevant policies and legal frameworks. 
The branch also manages the eTrade for all initiative.
In this report, the terms country/economy refer, as appropriate, to territories or areas.  
The designations of country groups are intended solely for statistical or analytical 
convenience, and do not necessarily express a judgement about the stage of development 
reached by a particular country or area in the development process. Unless otherwise 
indicated, the major country groupings used in this report follow the classification of the 
United Nations Statistics Division. These are:
Developed economies: member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) (excluding Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico and Türkiye), 
European Union member countries that are not OECD members (Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, 
Lithuania, Malta and Romania), as well as Albania, Andorra, Belarus, Bermuda, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Montenegro, North Macedonia, the Republic of 
Moldova, the Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia and Ukraine, plus the territories of 
Faroe Islands, Gibraltar, Greenland, Guernsey and Jersey. 
Developing economies are all countries not specified above. 
A file with the main country groupings used can be downloaded from UNCTADstat at  
http://unctadstat.unctad.org/EN/Classifications.html.
References to China do not include data for Hong Kong (China), Macao (China) or Taiwan 
Province of China.
References to Latin America include the Caribbean countries, unless otherwise indicated.
References to sub-Saharan Africa include South Africa, unless otherwise indicated.
The term “dollars” ($) refers to United States dollars, unless otherwise indicated.
The term “billion” signifies 1,000 million.
The following symbols may have been used in the tables:
Two dots (..) indicate that data are not available or are not separately reported.
A slash (/) between dates representing years, e.g. 1994/95, indicates a financial year.
Use of an en dash (–) between dates representing years, e.g. 1994–1995, signifies the full 
period involved, including the beginning and end years.
Annual rates of growth or change, unless otherwise stated, refer to annual compound rates.
Details and percentages in tables do not necessarily add up to the totals because of 
rounding.
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
iv

Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
v
Preface
Digitalization continues to move at warp speed, transforming lives and livelihoods. At the 
same time, unregulated digitalization risks leaving people behind and exacerbating 
environmental and climate challenges. 
The Digital Economy Report 2024 highlights the direct environmental impact of our increased 
reliance on digital tools – from raw material depletion, water and energy use, air quality, 
pollution, and waste generation. These are accentuated by emerging technologies such as 
artificial intelligence and the Internet of things.
A just and sustainable digital economy requires just and sustainable policies. 
Yet many developing countries continue to face obstacles in accessing digital technologies 
for their development needs, while bearing the brunt of environmental depletion, waste and 
climate change.
We cannot address digitalization and environmental sustainability in silos. This report calls 
for more comprehensive data on the environmental impact of digitalization, and digital 
policy frameworks that advance the Sustainable Development Goals and honour climate 
commitments.
As we prepare for the Summit of the Future and the Global Digital Compact, the United 
Nations offers a natural platform to bring together stakeholders from the digital and 
environmental communities. 
Together, we can harness the benefits of digitalization while closing the digital divide and 
protecting our planet. This report is an important resource as we strive to build a just and 
sustainable digital future for all.
António Guterres  
Secretary-General of the United Nations
© UN Photo/Mark Garten
vi
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
Foreword
The digital economy, often praised for its virtual and intangible nature, has created the 
illusion of a world unburdened by material waste. However, this Digital Economy Report 
2024 starkly reveals the fallacy of this perception. The information and communications 
technology sector’s carbon footprint in 2020, estimated at between 0.69 and 1.6 gigatons 
of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent emissions, accounted for 1.5 to 3.2 per cent of global 
greenhouse gas emissions – at the upper range, slightly below the entire shipping industry’s 
contribution to CO2 emissions. The production of a single 2 kg computer requires the 
extraction of a staggering 800 kg of raw materials.
These figures are only set to rise, with the production of minerals essential for the digital 
transition, such as graphite, lithium and cobalt, projected to surge by 500 per cent by 
2050 to meet the growing demand for digital and low-carbon technologies. Data centres, 
the backbone of the digital world, consumed an estimated 460 TWh of electricity in 2022, 
a figure projected to double by 2026. The number of semiconductor units quadrupled 
from 2001 to 2022 and continues to grow. Fifth-generation mobile broadband coverage is 
expected to increase from 25 per cent of the population in 2021 to 85 per cent by 2028, 
while the number of Internet of things devices is projected to grow from 16 billion in 2023 
to 39 billion in 2029. This expansion, coupled with the growing popularity of e-commerce, 
which saw business sales rise from $17 trillion in 2016 to $27 trillion in 2022 in 43 countries, 
paints a complex picture of the digital economy’s environmental impact.
This report serves as a wake-up call, urging us to confront the environmental consequences 
of our digital lifestyles. 
The environmental impact of digitalization is a global issue, but its effects are not evenly 
distributed. Developing countries, often rich in the resources needed for digital technologies, 
bear a disproportionate burden of its costs while reaping limited benefits. For example, 
discarded smartphones, laptops, screens and other electronic devices grew by 30 per 
cent between 2010 and 2022, reaching 10.5 million tons globally. Developed countries 
©2024_UNCTAD
vii
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
Rebeca Grynspan 
Secretary-General of UNCTAD
generated an average of 3.25 kg of e-waste per person, compared to less than 1 kg in 
developing countries and 0.21 kg in least developed countries. Shockingly, only 24 per cent 
of this waste was formally collected globally in 2022, with a mere 7.5 per cent collected in 
developing countries.
Another point to consider is the impact of the extraction of minerals essential for digital 
technologies on environmental and social sustainability. Such extraction is often sourced 
through artisanal and small-scale mining, which is often associated with unsafe working 
conditions, environmental degradation and exploitation of vulnerable communities, including 
children. These circumstances highlight the urgent need for greater transparency and 
responsible sourcing practices within the digital supply chain, ensuring that the pursuit of 
technological progress does not come at the expense of vulnerable communities or the 
environment.
Yet, despite these challenges, digitalization also holds immense potential for environmental 
good. Digital technologies can drive energy efficiency, optimize resource use and enable 
innovative solutions for climate change mitigation and adaptation.
This report emphasizes the need for a balanced approach. We must harness the power of 
digitalization to advance inclusive and sustainable development, while mitigating its negative 
environmental impacts. This requires a shift towards a circular digital economy, characterized 
by responsible consumption and production, renewable energy use and comprehensive 
e-waste management.
As we navigate this complex landscape, international cooperation is paramount. We must 
strive for equitable distribution of the benefits and costs of digitalization, ensuring that no 
one is left behind in the digital age. We must work together to establish comprehensive 
global governance frameworks that promote sustainable digital practices and empower 
developing countries to participate fully in the digital economy.
The Digital Economy Report 2024 draws attention to an important area. It underscores 
the urgent need for action at all levels – from Governments and businesses to international 
organizations and civil society. We must embrace a new mindset that considers sustainability 
at every stage of the digital life cycle.
I am confident that this report will provide valuable insights and recommendations for 
policymakers, industry leaders and all stakeholders committed to building a sustainable 
digital future. The choices we make today will determine the kind of world we leave for 
generations to come. Let us seize this opportunity to create a digital economy that thrives 
in harmony with our planet.
©2024_UNCTAD
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
viii
Acknowledgements
The Digital Economy Report 2024: Shaping an Environmentally Sustainable and Inclusive 
Digital Future was prepared, under the overall guidance of Shamika N. Sirimanne, Director 
of the UNCTAD Division on Technology and Logistics, by a team comprising Torbjörn 
Fredriksson (team leader), Nadira Bayat, Laura Cyron, Daniel Ker, Smita Lakhe, Marcin 
Skrzypczyk, Thomas van Giffen and Wei Zhang. 
The report benefited from major substantive inputs provided by Pablo Gámez Cersosimo, 
George Kamiya, David Souter, Alicia Valero and Kees Baldé on behalf of the United Nations 
Institute for Training and Research. 
Valuable comments were received from experts who attended a brainstorming meeting in 
October 2022 and a peer review meeting in November 2023, both in Geneva. Participating 
experts included Jerry Ahadjie, Anastasia Akhigbe, Uma Rani Amara, Rachid Amui, Kees 
Baldé, Heleen Buldeo Rai, Helen Burdett, Bruno Casella, Francesca Cenni, Vlad C. Coroamă, 
Hana Daoudi, Papa Daouda Amad Diene, Lorraine de Montenay, Sofia Dominguez, 
Scarlett Fondeur Gil, Clovis Freire, Viridiana Garcia-Quiles, Pablo Gámez Cersosimo, Ebru 
Gokce-Dessemond, Carlos A. Hernandez S., Seok Geun In, Arnau Izaguerri Vila, David 
Jensen, George Kamiya, Paz Peña, Nicolas Mazzucchi, Gerry McGovern, Steven Gonzalez 
Monserrate, Graham Mott, Mireia Roura, Arantxa Sanchez, Deepali Sinha Khetriwal, David 
Souter, Alicia Valero, Zarja Vojta, Andrew Williamson and Anida Yupari Aguado. Written 
comments were also received from Ying Tung Chan, Honghui He, Guoyong Liang and 
Zongguo Wen.  
UNCTAD greatly appreciates additional inputs from the Research Centre for Energy 
Resources and Consumption, the Economic Commission for Europe, the Economic 
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean and the United Nations Institute for 
Training and Research. 
The cover, graphics and layout were undertaken by Nadège Hadjémian and Gilles Maury. 
The 2024 report was edited by Romilly Golding. Diana Quiros provided administrative 
support. 
Financial support from the core donors of the E-commerce and Digital Economy programme, 
namely Australia, Germany, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland, 
is gratefully acknowledged. 
ix
ix
Contents
Page iii I  Note 
Page v  I  Preface
Page vi I  Foreword 
Page viii I  Acknowledgements 
Page 19 I  Policy recommendations
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
1
4
2
5
3
6
Page 1  I
Page 10  I Page 12  I Page 14  I
Page 1  I Page 4  I Page 7  I
x
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
The Digital Economy Report 2024:   
Shaping an Environmentally Sustainable   
and Inclusive Digital Future   
highlights the urgent need for sustainable strategies 
throughout the life cycle of digitalization. From raw 
material extraction and usage of digital technologies 
to waste generation, the report explores the 
nature and scale of the sector’s environmental 
footprint, which remains largely unassessed.  
What is apparent is that developing countries are 
suffering disproportionately from digitalization’s 
negative environmental effects, as well as missing 
out on economic developmental opportunities 
due to digital divides. UNCTAD calls for global 
policies involving all stakeholders to enable a more 
circular digital economy and reduced environmental 
footprints from digitalization, while ensuring inclusive 
development outcomes.
1
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
Understanding the nexus of digitalization 
and environmental sustainability is 
increasingly important
Digitalization continues to transform the world economy and society, creating both 
opportunities and challenges for sustainable development. 
Previous editions of the Digital Economy Report have largely focused on the implications 
of digitalization for inclusive development, the importance of bridging digital and data-
related divides, enabling value creation and capture in developing countries and fostering 
better governance of data and digital platforms.
The Digital Economy Report 2024 turns attention to the environmental footprint of 
digitalization. The topic is timely, not to say overdue. Digital transformation is taking 
place in parallel with growing concerns related to the depletion of raw materials, water 
stress, climate change, pollution and waste generation, which are all linked to planetary 
boundaries. 
The rapid pace and expanding scope of digitalization make it increasingly important to 
understand the relationship between digitalization and environmental sustainability. How 
the world’s ongoing digital transformation is managed will greatly influence the future of 
humanity and the health of the planet.
SECTION 1
© AdobeStock_Zaleman
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
2
Environmental impacts are generated 
along the whole digitalization life cycle
Direct environmental impacts from digital devices and from information and communications 
technology (ICT) infrastructure occur along the life cycle, taking place during the production 
phase (raw material extraction and processing, manufacturing, distribution), the use phase 
and the end-of-life phase. The direct effects on natural resources, including on transition 
minerals, energy and water, as well as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste-related 
pollution, constitute the “environmental footprint” of the ICT sector. 
There are also indirect environmental effects from the use of digital technologies and 
services in different sectors of the economy. These extend beyond digitalization’s direct 
footprint and can be both positive and negative. For example, digital technologies can help 
to improve energy efficiency, reducing demand across all sectors. Digital technologies can 
be used to cut GHG emissions in the transportation, construction, agriculture and energy 
sectors. However, the potential gains may be reduced or counterbalanced by “rebound 
effects”, in that digitalization may increase the consumption of goods and services, with 
negative effects on the environment as a result. Policies can greatly influence the net 
impact.
Digitalization is evolving rapidly, leaving  
a growing environmental footprint 
In the past two decades, the world has experienced a digital shift few would have 
anticipated at the time of the World Summit on the Information Society in 2005, creating 
new opportunities for economic and social development, as well as new challenges. 
According to the International Telecommunication Union, the number of Internet users 
surged from 1 billion in 2005 to 5.4 billion in 2023. Between 2010 and 2023, estimates of 
annual shipments of smartphones more than doubled, from 500 million to about 1.2 billion. 
From 2001 to 2022, the number of semiconductor units sold quadrupled, and these 
numbers keep expanding. Network infrastructure, including submarine cables and 
communications satellites, offers ever faster ways of connecting more people and 
machines. Fifth generation (5G) mobile broadband population coverage is expected by 
some market estimates to rise from 25 per cent in 2021 to 85 per cent in 2028. 
Higher connection speeds enable more data to be generated, collected, stored and 
analysed, and this is central to emerging technologies such as big data analytics, artificial 
intelligence (AI) and the Internet of things (IoT). The number of Internet-connected objects 
is expected to rise from 13 billion in 2022 to 35 billion in 2028.
While digital technologies can be used to mitigate various environmental concerns, the 
growing numbers of end-user devices, investments in data transmission networks and data 
Internet 
users have 
increased 
from 1 billion 
in 2005 to 
5.4 billion  
in 2023
Internet-
connected 
objects are 
expected to 
increase from 
13 billion 
in 2022 to 
35 billion  
in 2028
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
3
centres and more computationally intensive digital applications, such as AI and blockchain 
technology, are also translating into a growing environmental footprint. In the current highly 
linear digital economy production model – based on take/extract–make–use–waste – this 
leads to more demand for raw materials, water and energy, greater emissions of GHGs 
and more waste at the end-of-life phase. 
It is difficult to assess the impact of 
digitalization on the environment
This report points to the need for building a stronger evidence base to allow for 
comprehensive assessments of the environmental effects of digitalization. There is a lack of 
timely, comparable and accessible data and there are few harmonized reporting standards. 
Analytical studies rely on a variety of sources that are quickly becoming outdated due to 
the speed of digital developments; for example, existing studies do not adequately capture 
the environmental impact of recent developments in AI or the shift to 5G mobile networks. 
In some sectors, there is also limited disclosure of impacts. Results diverge considerably due 
to variations in methodologies, assumptions or the models used to estimate environmental 
impacts. For example, estimates of the ICT sector’s life cycle GHG emissions for 2020 
vary widely, from 0.69 gigatons to 1.6  gigatons of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e) emissions, 
corresponding to 1.5–3.2 per cent of global GHG emissions in that year. 
The impact of the ICT sector on water use is often overlooked, and there is a need for more 
transparent and reliable information on this. Water use at all stages of the digitalization life 
cycle can severely impact local biodiversity and livelihoods. Similarly, mining, an integral 
component of the production phase of digitalization, is highly water intensive. This can 
lead to competition for water resources between mining operations, agriculture and local 
households. 
Likewise, semiconductor production requires large amounts of extremely pure water, and 
data centres consume a lot of water both indirectly, to generate electricity, and directly, to 
cool servers. Water pollution can result from the final phases of the digitalization life cycle 
when contaminants from electronic components leach into groundwater due to improper 
e-waste disposal and dumping. This type of pollution can adversely affect biodiversity and 
human health.
The ICT sector 
is estimated 
to have 
accounted 
for 1.5–
3.2 per cent 
of global GHG 
emissions  
in 2020
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
4
Digitalization’s promise of 
dematerialization has not yet materialized
Available research suggests that the production phase of digitalization has the greatest 
combined negative impact on the environment. This is due to mineral and metal production, 
the volume of GHG emissions generated and water-related impacts. For example, 
in the case of smartphones, around 80 per cent of GHG emissions are attributed to the 
production phase.
Many consider the digital economy to be virtual, intangible or in the “cloud”, but digitalization 
heavily relies on the physical world and raw materials. Digital devices, hardware and 
infrastructure are composed of plastics, glass and ceramics, as well as dozens of minerals 
and metals. It has been estimated that making a 2 kg computer involves extracting 800 kg 
of raw materials.
The key minerals and metals used for digitalization include aluminium, cobalt, copper, gold, 
lithium, manganese, natural graphite, nickel, rare earth elements and silicon metal, and 
these are almost identical to those required for the shift towards a low-carbon economy. 
The growing demand for these materials is greatly driven by the shift to low-carbon and 
digital technologies. 
SECTION 2
The shift to 
low-carbon 
and digital 
technologies 
is driving 
the growing 
demand for 
key minerals
© AdobeStock_Southern Creative
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
5
According to an assessment by the World Bank, production of minerals such as graphite, 
lithium and cobalt could see an increase of 500 per cent by 2050 to meet growing demand. 
The global energy and climate model of the International Energy Agency (IEA) revealed that 
consumption of platinum group minerals could be 120 times higher in 2050 than in 2022. 
Such trends risk meeting the limits of the availability of minerals on a planet with finite 
resources.
Geopolitical concerns could exacerbate 
digitalization’s environmental footprint
The global minerals and metals market is highly concentrated geographically in terms 
of reserves, extraction and processing activities. For example, concerning extraction, in 
2022, the Democratic Republic of the Congo produced 68 per cent of the world’s cobalt. 
Australia and Chile produced 77 per cent of the world’s lithium, and Gabon and South 
Africa produced 59 per cent of the world’s manganese.
For China, shares of world production stood at 65 per cent for natural graphite, 78 per cent 
for silicon metal and 70 per cent for rare earth elements. China also plays a major role in 
terms of mineral processing, accounting for more than half of global mineral processing for 
aluminium, cobalt and lithium, about 90 per cent for manganese and rare earth elements, 
and close to 100 per cent for natural graphite.
Securing access to the supply of critical minerals has become a strategic priority, 
particularly for developed and developing countries that are important producers of goods 
needed for the transition towards a low-carbon and digital world. In some countries, efforts 
to secure mineral and metal supplies may inadvertently encourage hoarding and lead to 
overcapacity in production facilities. This may result in less efficient processes and an 
unnecessarily large environmental footprint for the digital economy. 
Changing industrial policies reflect the 
strategic importance of critical minerals
The strategic importance of certain raw materials has triggered new policymaking. 
As Asia, particularly China, emerged as the global electronics manufacturing hub, proximity 
to markets of intermediary products and components has bolstered burgeoning mineral 
processing activities. As China strives to improve its performance in strategic technology 
sectors, such as AI and low-carbon technology, there is an increased demand for minerals 
that are essential to these industries. Recent years have also seen a revival of industrial 
policies in some developed countries related to transition minerals and associated 
industries (including electronics). The focus in some global supply chains has shifted from 
“just in time” to “just in case” approaches. 
© AdobeStock_Southern Creative
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
6
In the United States of America, for example, the President has called for securing a made 
in America supply chain for critical minerals, and the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act in the 
country establishes percentages of critical minerals that must be mined, processed or 
recycled domestically. 
The European Union, in its Critical Raw Materials Act of 2023, sets 2030 benchmarks for 
the strategic raw materials value chain and for diversifying its supplies. Both the United 
States and the European Union have also taken measures to support domestic production 
of semiconductors. 
Resource-rich developing countries 
should benefit 
If resource-rich developing countries can add more value to the minerals extracted, make 
effective use of proceeds from the raw materials and diversify into other parts of the value 
chain and other sectors, the increased demand for minerals and metals required for 
digitalization can be leveraged as an opportunity for development.
In this context, there is a fundamental need to reverse trade imbalances, wherein 
developing countries export raw minerals and import higher value added manufactures, 
which contributes to an ecologically unequal exchange. 
It is also imperative to minimize negative environmental and social impacts, including 
human rights concerns. To achieve a more inclusive and environmentally sustainable digital 
economy, a balanced global policy response is needed that seeks to achieve responsible 
and sustainable consumption and production, and reflects the interests of both exporters 
and importers of raw materials.
There is a 
fundamental 
need to 
reverse the 
ecologically 
unequal 
exchange
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
7
Digital use is boosting energy and water 
consumption
As more people, businesses, Governments and organizations around the world make 
use of digital services, consumption of energy and water related to devices and ICT 
infrastructure has increased significantly. 
When considering the life cycle of data transmission networks and data centres, the bulk 
of energy and GHG emissions stem from the use phase. For devices, on the other hand, 
the proportion of such emissions generated during the use phase is smaller, although this 
can vary depending on the device and the energy mix used. Emissions related to desktop 
computers and televisions occur largely during the use phase, while for smartphones, 
tablets and laptops, the production phase generates most of the emissions. 
Data centres exert a significant environmental impact during the use phase. The expanding 
data-driven digital economy increasingly relies on data centres with huge storage and 
computing capacity, and these consume large amounts of both energy and water. 
The estimated electricity consumption by 13 of the largest data centre operators more than 
doubled between 2018 and 2022; consumption was led by Amazon, Alphabet, Microsoft 
and Meta. And there is more to come. According to IEA, worldwide, electricity for data 
centres amounted to about 460 TWh in 2022, a figure that could more than double to 
1,000 TWh by 2026. By way of comparison, total electricity consumption in France was 
about 459 TWh in 2022. 
SECTION 3
© AdobeStock_.shock
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
8
In some countries, growing data centre activity has put a strain on the local electricity grid. 
In Ireland, electricity use by data centres more than quadrupled between 2015 and 2022, 
representing 18 per cent of total electricity consumption in 2022. Projections indicate that 
this could reach 28 per cent by 2031. 
In Singapore, where data centres were responsible for around 7 per cent of all electricity 
demand in 2020, the Government imposed a moratorium on new data centres and later 
replaced it with stricter conditions on the use by data centres of electricity, water and land. 
Digital technologies have a significant water footprint which comprises a substantial part 
of their overall environmental impact. However, information on the impacts on water 
consumption is limited. Data centres not only have considerable electricity needs but also 
require water for cooling. Water usage and the impact of data centres on local water 
resources needs to be assessed in a location-specific context, as the choice of cooling 
technology is influenced by the local climate and resource availability; comparisons 
between regions with plentiful water supplies and those facing severe water shortages 
require vastly different considerations. While some cooling technologies can operate with 
less water, these technologies may consume more electricity instead. Therefore, water and 
electricity use by data centres should be considered holistically.
Energy consumption is accentuated by 
compute-intensive technologies
The environmental impacts of digitalization also vary depending on the activities and 
technologies involved. New digital services and their increasingly sophisticated technologies, 
such as blockchain, AI, 5G mobile networks and IoT, are poised to greatly increase the 
demand for data processing and storage and significantly affect the environmental footprint 
of the ICT sector. Some technologies, such as AI and blockchain, will primarily impact data 
centres. Others, such as 5G networks and IoT, will largely affect networks and devices. 
Managing and reducing the related environmental impacts will require concerted efforts 
from technology companies and policymakers.
Artificial intelligence and machine learning in particular require extensive computing 
resources and dedicated hardware. Understanding their energy and water use will become 
critical as mainstream applications, such as Gemini (formerly Bard), ChatGPT and Ernie, 
become more widely adopted. 
For example, Meta’s computing demand for machine-learning training and application has 
increased annually by more than 100 per cent in recent years. In the case of Microsoft, 
training of GPT-3 (a large language model on which ChatGPT is based) in its data centres in 
the United States has been estimated to have directly consumed 700,000 litres of potable 
water for cooling. 
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
9
Cryptocurrency mining is another energy-intensive activity, especially when relying on a 
“proof-of-work” blockchain consensus mechanism, a process that requires significant 
computational power. According to the Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance, the 
global energy consumption of bitcoin mining, the most prominent cryptocurrency, rose 
about 34 times between 2015 and 2023 to reach an estimated 121 TWh.
Understanding the energy and water footprints of AI and cryptocurrencies is crucial when 
assessing the environmental impacts of such technologies. Such operations should, to 
the greatest extent possible, be powered by low-carbon electricity. Operators also need 
to continue to improve the energy and water efficiency of data centres, while limiting the 
waste generated from frequent equipment replacements. At the same time, the scope for 
further efficiency improvements in these areas remains uncertain, partly due to the physical 
limits of transistors, which are fundamental building blocks of electronic devices.
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
10
Waste related to digitalization is 
expanding, with uneven regional 
implications
Waste from digitalization is a growing environmental concern. Between 2010 and 2022, the 
volume of waste from screens and monitors as well as small IT and telecommunications 
equipment expanded by 30 per cent globally, from 8.1 million to 10.5 million tons 
(not including waste from various IoT devices, batteries and communications satellites). 
In 2022, the largest contributors of such waste were China, the United States and the 
European Union. In per capita terms, developed countries generated on average 3.25 kg 
of waste compared with less than 1 kg in developing countries and 0.21 kg in the least 
developed countries (LDCs). In the United States, an average citizen generated 25 times 
more waste than an average citizen in LDCs. These significant disparities reflect the digital 
divide between countries in terms of access, affordability and use of digital devices and 
equipment. 
While it is important to address the considerable overconsumption in high-income 
countries and be mindful of the waste generated, it is also important to recognize that many 
developing countries still need to digitalize further in order to participate effectively in the 
global economy and society. This digitalization process will inevitably involve consumption, 
highlighting the complex balance between sustainability and economic development.
The growth in digitalization-related waste is due to several factors that include increased 
consumption of electronic devices and ICT equipment with shorter life spans; insufficient 
An average 
person 
generates 
3.25 kg of 
waste in 
developed 
countries, 
under 1 kg in 
developing 
countries, 
and 0.21 kg in 
LDCs
SECTION 4
© AdobeStock_ToRyUK
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
11
awareness among consumers about the waste implications of their devices; a linear model 
of production; and limited options for repairing or upgrading existing devices. 
New models with higher performance quickly replace existing models or make them 
redundant. Planned obsolescence by producers, for example by making smartphones 
work more slowly over time or phasing out support for older versions of software, adds to 
the growing waste problem. 
Encouragingly, concerns about planned obsolescence and limits to the right to repair have 
led to strong reactions from civil society. This is helping to raise awareness and spark calls 
for appropriate policy responses.
Digitalization-related waste collection 
needs to expand
Current rates of formal collection of digitalization-related waste remain low, especially in 
developing countries. While the global average for formal collection of digitalization-related 
waste amounted to 24 per cent of all waste in 2022, this figure dropped to just 7.5 per 
cent in developing countries. Even in developed countries, despite generally better formal 
collection systems, an average collection rate of 47 per cent is not high enough. 
Waste management brings significant challenges. In developing countries, formal collection 
systems to manage digitalization-related waste in an environmentally sound manner are 
often lacking, and much of the waste is handled by the informal sector. Moreover, only 
one in four developing countries has adopted relevant legislation for managing waste from 
digitalization. 
Available data and research indicate a pattern of unequal ecological exchange in the 
international trade of waste related to digitalization. This is due to the largely uncontrolled 
trade in used digital equipment, which typically moves from developed to developing 
economies. 
In contrast, the higher-value parts of this waste for processing or treatment (such as printed 
circuit boards) are mostly exported from developing to developed countries. As a result, 
developing countries remain locked in the low value part of the waste value chain (e.g. 
uncontrolled trade in used electronic equipment), yet bear the burden of various related 
environmental and social costs. 
Only 24 per 
cent of digital 
waste was 
formally 
collected 
globally in 
2022, with just 
7.5 per cent 
in developing 
countries
© AdobeStock_ToRyUK
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
12
E-commerce should become more 
environmentally sustainable
People and businesses are increasingly going online to buy goods and services. 
E-commerce represents an important application of digital technologies, with implications 
for both domestic and international trade. 
Since the beginning of this century, the number of people shopping online has surged from 
less than 100 million to some 2.3 billion in 2021. The value of sales across the world’s top 
35 e-commerce platforms has boomed in recent years, from $2.6 trillion in 2019 to more 
than $4 trillion in 2021, led by Alibaba, Amazon, JD.com and Pinduoduo. 
UNCTAD estimates that the total value of e-commerce sales by businesses, in the 
43 developed and developing countries for which data are available, rose from $17 trillion in 
2016 to $27 trillion in 2022. Most of these sales are domestic, but the share of international 
e-commerce is growing. At the same time, the shift to e-commerce has only just started in 
most developing countries, particularly in LDCs.
E-commerce is disrupting economic processes and consumption patterns, with 
positive and negative implications for environmental sustainability. While precise impact 
assessments of the environmental impact of e-commerce are hindered by limited data, 
the net effect depends on how businesses handle warehousing, storage, transportation, 
logistics, packaging and returns. Consumer behaviour plays a role, too. 
©Shutterstock_DELBO ANDREA
SECTION 5
Business 
e-commerce 
sales 
rose from 
$17 trillion 
in 2016 to 
$27 trillion 
in 2022 in 
43 countries
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
13
©Shutterstock_DELBO ANDREA
E-commerce has boosted consumption due to enhanced accessibility and convenience, 
lower prices, greater product variety and wider reach of online marketing. More frequent 
purchases across different platforms and retailers – including more impulse buying – leads 
to overconsumption, causing increased transportation emissions and waste. 
Making e-commerce more environmentally sustainable requires a greater emphasis on 
circular business models, ethical sourcing and production, energy-efficient logistics and 
adopting renewable energy and eco-friendly delivery solutions, as well as sustainable 
packaging and finding ways to promote sustainable consumption. 
Policymakers can facilitate these changes through an appropriate mix of legislative, 
regulatory instruments and tax mechanisms to reduce CO 2 emissions in transportation 
and minimize waste from e-commerce. This will require a collaborative effort between 
Governments, businesses, platforms, logistics providers and consumers.
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
14
SECTION 6
A new policy mindset is required
There is a need for new business models, policies and strategies that maximize the positive 
impact of digitalization on sustainability while minimizing the negative impacts. 
Digital development should be assessed in light of several critical challenges: the need to 
reduce overall consumption and optimize the use of scarce resources without jeopardizing 
the prospects of future generations; the need to curtail carbon emissions and prevent 
catastrophic climate change; and the need to turn the accumulation of digitalization-
related waste into an opportunity for recovery, recycling and reuse in a circular economy.
Achieving an inclusive and environmentally 
sustainable digital economy requires a 
shift towards circularity
According to the Circle Economy Foundation, the global economy is still only 7.2 per cent 
circular, showing a declining trend driven by rising material extraction and use. 
A shift towards a more circular digital economy would optimize the economic and 
environmental impacts of digitalization, including supporting business opportunities and 
job creation. This means using renewable energy and adaptive and resilient infrastructure; 
© 2024_UNCTAD
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
15
reducing wasteful use of digital networks, products and services; increasing repair, reuse, 
refurbishment and recycling of devices; and significantly improving the recovery of material 
resources from digitalization-related waste. 
Achieving greater circularity requires change at all stages of the digital life cycle: designing 
platforms, products and services in ways that foster sustainable consumption by default; 
encouraging sufficiency and frugality in the use of resources where overconsumption is 
currently prevalent; and facilitating the recovery and reuse of resources to maximize their value.
Many developing countries are in a double 
bind, experiencing limited benefits of 
digitalization and suffering high exposure 
to its negative environmental impacts
Currently, the distribution of benefits and costs from digitalization is skewed. Most of the 
value added in the digital economy is captured by developed and some digitally advanced 
developing countries, while many of the costs are most harshly felt in other developing 
countries. 
Countries at different levels of development are unevenly affected by environmental impacts 
related to the various stages of the digitalization life cycle. Many developing countries are 
providers of key raw materials, and some are the destination for significant digitalization-
related waste. At the same time, developing regions are often at the tail end of global trade, 
where opportunities for value addition and economic growth are limited. 
Moreover, developing countries tend to be more affected by climate change, which can 
limit their options for socioeconomic development. Finally, developing countries often lack 
the resources and capacity to use digital technologies for mitigating negative environmental 
impacts (box). 
There are risks that LDCs in particular will fall further behind in terms of both digital 
development and environmental sustainability. Achieving environmentally sustainable 
digitalization that fosters inclusive development will require a reversal of the unequal 
ecological exchange and vulnerabilities faced by developing countries. 
Against this backdrop, and in line with the principle of common but differentiated 
responsibilities, the extent and nature of responsibility for environmental protection varies 
according to each country’s capabilities, historical responsibilities and level of development. 
Economies that are more digitally developed have a particular responsibility to ensure 
a global transition towards an inclusive and sustainable digital future by devising and 
implementing policies to reduce digitalization’s environmental footprint and to enhance the 
capacity of developing countries to benefit from digitalization.
  
© 2024_UNCTAD
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
16
Balancing climate needs 
with digital transformation in developing countries
Digital divides remain a significant barrier to socioeconomic development. While there 
is great potential for most developing countries to benefit from digital transformation, 
many countries have seen relatively limited benefits to date. A lack of financial and 
human resources often hampers the ability to harness digital infrastructure for 
sustainable development. At the same time, many countries struggle to use digital 
solutions for dealing with climate change and other environmental risks. 
As historic responsibilities for environmental challenges lie predominantly with today’s 
developed countries, which have also reaped the greatest gains from digitalization, 
tailored and nuanced solutions are needed to advance digital transformation in 
developing regions and balance environmental impacts. Policy responses should reflect 
the disproportionate role that developed countries have played in both technological 
progress and environmental degradation. Integrating policies on digitalization and 
environmental stewardship is essential. More international cooperation will be vital 
for low-income countries to participate in a global and environmentally sustainable 
digital transformation. Developed and digitally advanced countries can do more to 
support capacity-building for strengthening the digital readiness of countries trailing 
behind, as well as deploying digital solutions to mitigate climate change.
Source: UNCTAD.
Bold and resolute action at national and 
international levels is imperative
Policy efforts at the national level are more likely to prove successful if implemented as part of 
digital strategies developed with economic inclusion and environmental sustainability in mind. 
Similarly, government strategies to mitigate GHG emissions, conserve water resources and 
reduce waste generation should pay adequate attention to the environmental footprint of 
digitalization and to how digital technologies can offer solutions to environmental concerns.
Policies and strategies at the international level should acknowledge the needs and 
priorities of all countries and highlight opportunities for developing countries to benefit 
from the potential that digitalization offers. Development partners should offer adequate 
support to low-income countries to strengthen their capabilities for digitalization and 
environmental sustainability and to ensure that they can participate effectively in a more 
circular global digital economy. Several international developments provide opportunities 
for further advancement. 
The World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), which first established global goals 
for digital development in the early 2000s, will be reviewed by the United Nations General 
Assembly in 2025. 
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
17
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which was approved in 2015 and has 
sought to embed environmental sustainability at the heart of the international agenda, will 
be reviewed at the end of this decade. 
Even before either of these reviews, the United Nations General Assembly will hold a 
Summit of the Future and agree on a pact for the future with parts emphasizing sustainable 
development and digital cooperation. The pact is expected to include a global digital 
compact, which is to set out principles, objectives and actions for digital development that 
support the Sustainable Development Goals.  
More effective global governance is needed
There is currently no inclusive global governance framework in place to help galvanize 
collective action and facilitate knowledge-sharing among countries, build consensus, 
set global standards and encourage transparent reporting and monitoring of progress 
towards shared goals at the interface of digitalization and environmental sustainability. An 
inclusive and integrated approach is needed to enable policymakers to align their digital 
and environmental policies at all levels, thereby enhancing the global community’s ability to 
address complex and interdependent global challenges. 
Multilateral and cross-sectoral dialogue between digital and low-carbon policy communities 
should be established at the heart of discussions on sustainable development and 
embedded in the work of international standard-setting bodies. Multi-stakeholder 
partnerships (such as the Coalition for Digital Environmental Sustainability) that can draw 
on the capabilities and strengths of international agencies, Governments, businesses 
and research organizations are likely to achieve better outcomes than Governments and 
multilateral agencies acting alone.
International processes and fora focusing on how to leverage digitalization for development, 
including the World Summit on the Information Society: 20-Year Review (WSIS+20), the 
Commission on Science and Technology for Development and the global digital compact, 
should give due attention to the environmental dimensions. There is an equal need for 
processes related to global environmental challenges – such as the International Resource 
Panel, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Intergovernmental Science–Policy 
Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services – to give more attention to the role of 
digitalization. 
To protect the interests and well-being of all, including future generations, urgent and 
resolute actions have been called for to achieve systemic shifts in the areas of energy, 
food, mobility and the built environment. It is time to extend the calls for bold action to 
the entire life cycle of digitalization and to start systematically tracking the environmental 
footprint of the ICT sector. 
It’s time to 
take bold 
action on 
digitalization 
and track the 
ICT sector’s 
environmental 
footprint
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
18
© 2024_UNCTAD
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
19
Policy 
recommendations

Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
  
20
Summary of policy objectives and options 
at national, regional and international levels, by stage of the digitalization life cycle
 
Objective
Policy options
National Regional International
   Environmentally 
sustainable and 
responsible mining 
and electronics 
manufacturing, 
while enabling 
more domestic 
value addition for 
development in 
producing countries
1.  Improve information on mining 
resources for exploration
2.  Promote mining contract 
negotiations for equitable 
distribution of rents from mining of 
transition minerals
3.  Develop industrial policies to 
support value addition of raw 
materials extracted and move 
towards manufacturing
4.  Develop technology policy for 
research on more sustainable 
substitute materials
5.  Ban use of toxic materials
6.  Incentivize and promote use of 
recycled materials, supporting 
development of secondary markets
7.  Require producers to report 
transparently on their 
environmental footprints
1.  Foster regional 
cooperation to increase 
negotiating power in 
mining contracts and 
regional tax regimes
2.  Develop regional 
industrial policies 
for value addition in 
developing countries
1.  Develop standards for responsible 
and sustainable mining and 
electronics manufacturing
2.  Limit use of minerals that may be a 
source of conflict
3.  Adopt and apply global 
transparency standards
4.  Collaborate for improved geological 
and mining data
5.  Establish sustainable development 
licences to operate mining 
activities
6.  Negotiate international tax regime 
that works for equitable distribution 
of rents among producers and 
consumers
7.  Enable international cooperation 
among consumer and producer 
countries of transition minerals and 
metals
PRODUCTION
 
Objective
Policy options
National Regional International
   Optimize data centre 
performance to 
minimize impacts on 
energy and water, 
as well as on local 
communities
   Optimize software to 
reduce energy use
   Reduce 
overconsumption
   Incentivize and 
promote meaningful, 
effective and 
productive use of 
digital tools and 
equipment
   Bridge digital and 
data divides
1.  Raise awareness of environmental 
implications of different kinds of 
use (e.g., AI)
2.  Develop policies to counter and ban 
greenwashing
3.  Require sharing of network 
infrastructure
4.  Require data centres to report 
holistically on environmental 
impacts
5. Mitigate excessive data storage
6.  Adopt technology policy to foster 
and meet requirements of energy 
and water use efficiency in data 
centres
7.  Require investments by hyperscale 
data centres in renewable energy 
to feed local grids
8.  Promote water conservation in data 
centres, minimizing use of water 
for cooling
1.  Consider regional data 
centres as a more 
efficient option for the 
environment
2.  Undertake needs 
assessment and 
identification of locations 
for regional data centres 
based on potential 
environmental impact
1.    Develop global reporting standards 
on environmental impacts
2.   Foster global data governance, 
including environmental 
sustainability considerations
3.   Strengthen international 
cooperation on bridging digital and 
data divides and building digital 
and environmental capabilities in 
developing countries
4.   Strengthen international 
cooperation on competition 
policies to address abuse of 
market power in the digital 
economy
USE
  
 
Objective
Policy options
National Regional International
   Enable, promote and 
regulate sustainable 
consumption and 
production and 
the circular digital 
economy through 
policies for reducing, 
reusing and recycling
1.   Implement circular economy 
policy approaches throughout 
digitalization life cycle
2.   Strengthen integration of 
environmental sustainability and 
digital development aspects, in 
a coherent manner, in national 
development strategies
3.   Regulate to require the following: 
ICT products designed for 
circularity and sustainability; 
avoidance of programmed 
obsolescence; extended product 
durability; right to repair; 
traceability of products, including 
components and raw materials 
(e.g., through digital product/
material passports); and higher 
levels of recycling
4.   Incentivize and promote new 
sustainable business models (e.g., 
electronic products as a service)
5.   Develop collaboration and 
partnerships among relevant 
stakeholders throughout 
digitalization cycle
6.   Improve evidence base for 
policymaking
7.   Raise awareness through targeted 
campaigns on environmental 
impacts of digitalization
8.   Regulate advertising in the digital 
economy to prevent manipulation 
and control over consumers, 
including actions that encourage 
overconsumption
1.   Consider developing 
regional approaches to 
circular digital economy 
and digital trade
2.   Develop regional 
approaches to tracing  
of digital products
1.   Strengthen international 
cooperation among relevant 
stakeholders throughout 
digitalization life cycle
2.   Adapt policies to ensure that trade 
works for an inclusive global digital 
economy and digital trade
3.   Develop global standards of design 
for sustainable ICT products, as 
well as for reusing, repairing and 
recycling
4.   Include ICT sector in international 
frameworks for assessing various 
environmental impacts
Source: UNCTAD.
ALL PHASES
 
Objective
Policy options
National Regional International
   Prevent and minimize 
digitalization-related 
waste and increase 
recovery of resources 
and value from such 
waste
1.   Adopt and enforce e-waste policy, 
legislation and regulations, to 
improve collection rates
2.   Improve data and information on 
digitalization-related waste
3.   Build waste management 
infrastructure
4.   Apply extended producer 
responsibility mechanisms
5.   Improve working conditions in 
waste management sector, moving 
towards formalization
1.   Develop regional 
recycling facilities, 
particularly in 
developing countries, 
to enable shift to 
higher value addition 
in digitalization-related 
waste value chain 
and better recovery of 
valuable resources
2.   Facilitate collaboration 
in waste management, 
sharing technology and 
best practice s
1.   Improve data and information on 
digitalization-related waste
2.   Develop global standards for 
circularity
3.   Ensure compliance with 
rules of Basel Convention for 
transboundary flows, to prevent 
illegal exports of digitalization-
related waste
4.   Consider transferring extended 
producer responsibility in 
transboundary flows of used 
equipment and/or extending 
geographical scope
END-OF-LIFE
21
Digital Economy Report 2024 I OVERVIEW
Shaping an environmentally sustainable and inclusive digital future
Promoting better e-commerce practices
   Government and business collaboration: Governments should establish regulatory 
frameworks and provide incentives for sustainable practices, while businesses should 
innovate and integrate sustainability into their operations.
   Sustainable warehousing and transportation: Governments can offer economic 
incentives for resource-efficient infrastructure and eco-friendly delivery methods, while 
businesses should invest in energy-efficient solutions and electric delivery vehicles.
   Packaging and returns management: Governments should regulate excessive packaging 
and returns, promoting reusable and biodegradable materials. Businesses should 
eliminate single-use plastics, avoid unnecessary packaging, and implement fees and 
technology to reduce returns.
Encouraging more environmentally conscious consumer behaviour
   Regulation and green labels: Governments should prevent false claims and mandate 
credible environmental labels on e-commerce platforms.
   Consumer awareness campaigns: Governments and businesses should collaborate to 
raise awareness about the environmental impacts of consumer choices and encourage 
transparency in disclosing product environmental costs.
   Incentives for eco-friendly choices: Businesses should offer discounts for sustainable 
packaging and shipping options, and clearly present sustainability attributes through 
recognized eco-labels.
Improving the evidence base for informed policymaking
   Data collection and research: Governments should establish mechanisms for collecting 
data on the environmental impact of e-commerce and require companies to disclose 
sustainability performance.
   International collaboration: International organizations should advance research agendas 
and share data and strategies for sustainability in e-commerce.
   Partnerships for innovation: Foster partnerships with financial technology, e-commerce, 
and digital companies to drive investments in digital innovations prioritizing environmental 
and social sustainability.
Agenda for action for 
environmentally sustainable e-commerce
1
2
3
22

UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT
Shaping an 
environmentally sustainable 
and inclusive digital future
Digital   
economy 
report
OVERVIEW
2024
Coverpage © 2024_UNCTAD
The contents of this report must not be quoted or sum-
marized in print, broadcast,  
electronic or social media before 
10 July 2024 at 10 a.m. GMT, 12 noon CET (Geneva)
Printed at United Nations, Geneva – 2411996 (E) – July 2024 – 1,420 – UNCTAD/DER/2024 (Overview)