Source: https://learn.dorieclark.com/courses/expert
Retrieved: 2026-08-30

Recognized Expert® Skip to main content Dorie's Courses Toggle menu Menu Sign In Recognized Expert® How to Attract Clients with Your Reputation and Earn What You're Worth Many talented professionals want to make a bigger impact and get their work & their ideas better known. That was certainly how I felt when I launched my consulting & coaching practice in 2006. In the intervening years, I've written four books (from Harvard Business Review Press and Portfolio/Penguin), am a regular contributor to Harvard Business Review and Fast Company, and I was fortunate to be named one of the world's Top 50 Business Thinkers three times by Thinkers50. But when I started, I wasn't quite sure how to do it. That's why I methodically researched the process of how leading experts built their brands and their platforms, in order to do it for myself - and eventually, so that I could help others do the same. Now, I've distilled what I've learned about growing your platform, your business, and your impact into the Recognized Expert ® course. Since 2016, more than 800 successful professionals been through the program. 60+ of them have subsequently become contributors to the Harvard Business Review and other high profile publications, and multiple course participants have become Wall Street Journal bestselling authors, TEDx speakers with million-plus views, and guests on programs like Good Morning America, The Today Show, and The Tim Ferriss Show. Specifically, Recognized Expert® is intended for professionals who believe it would benefit their business or their career to be more widely recognized for their skills and expertise. The course helps you learn how to do that effectively, with the goal of opening up new business and professional opportunities that are genuinely exciting for you. Because being great at what you do is very different than being well known for what you do. With the Recognized Expert ® course, my goal is to level the playing field and help talented professionals get their voices heard, so that the best ideas - not just the loudest voices - are the ones that win. I'm excited to help you share your best ideas with the world. Recognized Expert ® provides you with a clear system for how to build your professional reputation in order to attract the right opportunities to you. The purpose of the course is to support you in reaching even greater levels of impact and success. Watch Intro Video Video What Will You Learn in the Course? In the course, you'll learn extremely concrete and practical strategies for how to: Find your message and breakthrough idea, and learn to talk about it in a way that sets you apart Get featured in the media & write for prominent publications Land paid speaking engagements (and cool unpaid opportunities like TEDx talks) Grow your social media and online following Attract clients, job offers, and consulting opportunities to you - rather than constantly having to fight for them Build your email list Overcome self-doubt and the 'imposter syndrome' that holds many talented professionals back Network with peers and so-called 'influencers' in a genuine and authentic way, even if you're an introvert (like I am) Launch a successful book, blog, or podcast How is the Course Structured? Recognized Expert® is an in-depth online course that you can access anytime, anywhere around the world. The course includes more than 60 hours of targeted video instruction modules, as well as monthly live webinars/Q&A sessions (which are recorded, in case you can't make a particular session). Upon registration, you'll be given immediate access to all the course materials, so if you'd like to "binge," you can. Alternately, if you prefer a 'paced' experience, I'll send out weekly emails to you over a 12-week period with suggested material for you to watch, and homework assignments for you to complete, that week. Most importantly, when you join the community, you get lifetime membership - there are no additional fees and you can access course materials, our online community, and our monthly live sessions forever. Testimonials I landed a $250,000 contract! Joel Gagne, Owner of Allerton Hill Consulting, Columbus, OH "Thanks to applying the Recognized Expert methodology, I was featured in an article in a major business publication. A potential client saw the article, reached out to me cold, and it resulted in a $250,000 contract! The Recognized Expert course really works!" My business now brings in six figures annually Albert DiBernardo, Leadership Coach and Mentor, New York, NY “Dorie Clark's Recognized Expert course gave me the confidence and support to build a post-retirement career for myself. With Dorie's continued help, energy and unwavering support - including from the phenomenal network of fellow Recognized Expert participants - I have built my business now to over 6 figures annually. I would never have gotten to where I am today without this course; it changed my life!” I’ve found new and impactful ways to contribute Mahesh Thakur, VP of Product, GoDaddy, San Francisco, CA "When it comes to being innovative and building your leadership brand, Dorie is the most authentic coach. Her coaching, courses, and the community that she has built are all transformational. After 15+ years in tech, I have found new and impactful ways to contribute both within and outside my industry – all thanks to Dorie." The Recognized Expert community has transformed me professionally Luis Velasquez, MBA, PhD Velas Coaching LLC, San Francisco, CA “Because of the Recognized Expert course, financially speaking, last year was the best year since I started my business. I can honestly say that being a part of the Rex community has transformed me professionally and I am just beginning to reap the benefits.” Taking the Recognized Expert course was one of the best decisions I ever made Michael Maddaus, MD Professor of Thoracic Surgery, Minneapolis, MN "Two years ago I was sitting in front of the computer, at home, alone, knowing I wanted to put my years of experience and skills to use in the world, but I had no idea where to begin. As a thoracic surgeon, my world was academic medicine. I came across Dorie Clark’s book Reinventing You and after reading it I took the leap of faith and joined the Recognized Expert Course and community. It was one of the best decisions I have ever made. Instantly you have access to her phenomenal down to earth, authentic, and practical course and to Dorie and to the fantastic community of Rx’ers she has assembled. There you will find others on the same journey with so much experience and wisdom and kindness and willingness to help. Bottom line - if you want to make a difference in the world and you need help getting there, this is the place for you. " A global community of amazing and accomplished individuals Susan Peppercorn, CEO Positive Workplace Partners, Boston, MA "Dorie combines the best of head and heart. She is generous in spirit, whip-smart, and authentic. As a participant in one of her mastermind groups and several courses, I've always come away with a plethora of creative and actionable strategies to grow my business and brand. She doesn't stop at one-one coaching or small group learning. Dorie created a global community that has allowed me to learn from and collaborate with some of the most amazing and accomplished individuals that I otherwise would not have known. I would highly recommend her to anyone trying to define their niche and stand out." The connections I've made are worth the price alone Robbie Samuels, Keynote Speaker, Strategist, and Author, Philadelphia, PA "I've sought and followed Dorie's counsel for over a decade and can trace every major business opportunity back to her - whether it was something I learned in her Recognized Expert course, from someone in the REx community, or an introduction Dorie made. It was an easy decision to join her program for the content, but the connections I've made are a huge value that I believe is worth the price of admission all on it's own. If you're ready to become known for your expertise, follow the path Dorie blazed for us and has kindly mapped out." A fantastic investment Tom Waterhouse, Independent Consultant, Geneva, Switzerland “I’m absolutely loving the Recognized Expert course – the materials, the community, your engagement. Truly a fantastic investment.” Dorie taught me in an actionable and focused way to become an expert Dr. Christina Guthier, Occupational Health and Organizational Psychologist, Düsseldorf, Germany "Dorie’s Recognized Expert course taught me in an actionable and focused way what it takes to become a recognized expert in the (business) world. During the 14 week course period I became more aware of my unique set of expertise and built my individual recognized expert roadmap. And the best part is: I will be surrounded by Dorie and all the other generous and inspiring people of the Recognized Expert community to make the switch from academic to recognized expert really happen. Investing in this course was definitely one of the best decisions in my life!" One of the best professional decisions I have ever made Jenny Lisk, Host, The Widowed Parent Podcast, Redmond, WA “Dorie's approach and her ideas really do work if you apply them thoughtfully and consistently over the long term. In the past few months, I've been quoted as an expert in the Washington Post, had a full-page profile in ParentMap, been shouted-out by the keynote speaker at a major conference in my field, and grown my podcast to over 14,000 downloads in 50 countries. My email list has grown, with strong engagement. I'll be publishing my first book later this year. Joining Dorie Clark's Recognized Expert course and community was one of the best professional decisions I have ever made." What's included in the Recognized Expert course? The Recognized Expert System An in-depth curriculum (66 video lessons) showing you the exact steps to follow to help you gain more recognition for your work. This includes the cornerstone of the Recognized Expert® methodology: Content Creation, Social Proof, and Network. Monthly live instruction You'll have the opportunity to get live instruction from Dorie and special guest stars each month, as well as Q&A opportunities. Topics include how to land a book deal (with a major publishing house's acquisitions editor), get quoted in prominent publications, master content strategy (LinkedIn, YouTube, etc.), get booked on podcasts, secure a TEDx talk, and more. Growth library You'll enjoy immediate, unlimited access to more than 60 hours of past instructional sessions and guest expert webinars. Topics include how to multiply your online following, how to connect with reporters (interview with Wall Street Journal reporter), how to land a literary agent, and more. Recognized Expert community With more than 800 members from across the world, we have a very active online community that will help you answer questions, get access to advice and resources, and build valuable connections and genuine friendships with other like-minded, generous professionals. Members often hold regional meetups in person, as well. You can build deep, long-term relationships because you have a lifetime membership in the community; it never expires and there are no additional fees. How Much Time Does the Course Take? You'll have full access to the course materials as soon as you register (so you can dive in immediately if you'd like), but most participants spend 2-3 hours per week over a 12 week period. My goal with the course was to set a realistic pace - one that allows you to make meaningful progress toward becoming a Recognized Expert ®, but doesn't take over your life - because, as a busy professional, that's neither realistic nor sustainable. I want the program to help you create habits for professional growth and development that you can - and want to - keep up over time. You also have lifetime access to the course materials, so, while you can go as fast as you'd like, there's no artificial "rush" or deadline you have to worry about. Testimonials This course resulted in a significant raise Paul Fairbrother, Social Media Specialist, Hastings, England "By lunchtime today I've already received three emails offering me the chance to write blog posts for well respected sites in my industry, plus a request to be a guest on a webinar and a spot on a podcast. Compare this to zero requests in a month before I took the Recognized Expert course and that's proof enough for me that Dorie's methods work. Although the course is a significant investment, it also resulted in a significant raise and therefore paid for itself in no time at all." I started blogging as an expert for Worth magazine as a direct result of this course Alisa Cohn, Inc.com & Forbes.com Columnist, Executive Coach, New York, NY “I started blogging as an expert for Worth magazine as a direct result of this course. Dorie’s voice is in your head about your ability to get things done, and I took a risk in reaching out to publications and it worked out. That helped build my confidence, and I was then able to use those credentials to work my way into other publications. Those are huge takeaways for me, and they’re game changers for me in my profession.” I started receiving inbound inquires about my executive coaching practice Nihar Chhaya, Executive Coach for Senior Leaders at Global Companies, Dallas, TX “Through the Recognized Expert course, I met a talented author who was writing an article for a high profile publication and polling people on their career experiences. My story resonated with her and she decided to include it in her article. Within a few days, I started receiving inbound inquiries about my executive coaching practice from leaders I didn't know but who had read the article. This simple example proved to me that Dorie's teachings work wonders if you put in the work and stay authentic in your contributions.” When you want to accomplish something, turn to someone who's already done it Dr. Sharon Melnick, Psychologist, Author, Professional Speaker, New York, NY "When you want to achieve something, turn to someone who has already done it. That's Dorie Clark. She's ubiquitous in the influential business publications and on the marquee conference stages, and commands high fees for her speaking and consulting. This program is unique because Dorie brings her signature ability to break things down and is highly accessible to answer your questions. You get a blueprint, insider advice on what to do (and not do), and inspiration from the other community members." I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this course! Anucha Browne, Sports Executive, Brooklyn, NY "I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this course to others. Once in a while, you connect with a forward-thinking giver. That's exactly who Dorie Clark is. This is a perfectly designed course that provides clear and specific direction to those who are on the cusp of effecting change and making their passion a reality." I have a roadmap now Katie Carr Miller, Executive Leadership Coach, Walnut Creek, CA “I feel like I have a roadmap now. Six weeks ago, I had no idea where to start or how I should organize myself. Now I have not only a perspective on these areas, but your stories in my head that can help validate me on how I should be spending my time and define what I should and shouldn't do. I am all about efficiencies, and your content has provided solutions for me.” Everything I needed to know to save time, money, and aggravation Terri Deuel, Consultant, Atlanta, GA "Efforts to become a recognized expert, gain visibility and stand out in a crowded world were overwhelming and discouraging. I struggled with how to go about it, which is exactly why Dorie Clark's Recognized Expert course was the ideal choice for me. She simplified the process by giving me everything I needed to know to save time, money and aggravation, including methods to build a reputation, ways to avoid common mistakes and blueprints to jump-start my efforts." Dorie's Recognized Expert course is refreshingly real Brittany Thomas, Marketing and Operations Coach, Denver, CO "With countless courses promising unrealistic overnight success, Dorie's Recognized Expert Course is refreshingly real. Based on her own experience and other successful experts, Dorie teaches how to effectively build an expertise that will pay off in the long-run. I recently started my own consulting business and this course has helped me further define my unique value as a marketer and what type of clients I can best serve. The content inspired me to focus my business more on what I'm naturally curious about - wellness & fitness. Before the course I had countless ideas of what to write about, and now I am able to better focus on content that will help me grow my expertise and business long term. One of the best parts about this course is the incredible community Dorie has cultivated. The supportive, smart (and fun!) REx crew have been valuable teachers to me during this new chapter of my career. It is 100% worth the investment." Dorie's course is truly empowering Elena Rodighiero, Cybersecurity Solutions Specialist, San Francisco, CA “Thanks to what I learned in the course, in less than one year, I have been invited to speak at Microsoft’s annual conference to present a deal I closed in an innovative way, and I co-authored a case with my former business school professor. Now, I feel I have so many other opportunities to contribute. Dorie’s class was truly empowering.” Watching and learning from the Recognized Expert group is what gave me the confidence to make all this happen. Chris Littlefield, Employee Engagement Consultant, Santiago, Chile “Working with Dorie Clark and being part of the Recognized Expert community is the single best investment I have ever made in my business. Since working with Dorie my life and business have changed. I have gone from writing a weekly newsletter that 100 people read to being a regular contributor to Harvard Business Review and Forbes. I used to spent my time chasing clients, now they reach out to me. Watching and learning from the Recognized Expert group is what gave me the confidence to make all this happen.” When You Join the Recognized Expert® Community... You join a group of 800+ talented, generous professionals who connect online, sometimes meet up in person, share their knowledge, and rise together to share their best ideas with the world. (I took this shot at a mastermind retreat attended by many members of the Recognized Expert community.) Many people have launched business projects together, referred business to one another, and have formed meaningful friendships. Testimonials I made the Thinkers50 Radar list! Neri Karra Sillaman, strategy consultant and speaker, Thinkers50 Radar Thinker - Paris, France “ Dorie has codified and developed a one-of-a-kind framework of what it takes to be a leading recognised expert. After joining the course and following Dorie’s advice, I became a contributor to Harvard Business Review and Fast Company, published three op-ed articles at Newsweek, gave two Tedx talks that were both featured on ted.com, have been quoted in the Financial Times, Bloomberg Business, Forbes and the Business of Fashion, to name a few. And most recently I made the Thinkers50 Radar list! Dorie is the real deal! The community that she built is indispensable and they become your biggest cheerleaders, sound boards, and most importantly friends. Grateful for Dorie and all the generous, smart, wonderful REXers!” This whole experience has taken my career to the next level Carlos Tellez, consultant, corporate board member, and 3x former CEO, Bogota, Colombia “The course enables me to be part of a dynamic community of generous and accomplished professionals. This whole experience has been totally valuable in taking my career as an independent professional to the next level. I absolutely recommend the Recognized Expert course & community.” The most impactful investment Greg Tutunjian, Agile Strategist, Boston, MA “I can already see that this is the most impactful professional investment I have ever made.” This has given me the confidence to achieve my goals & dreams Erika Giorgana, organizational transformation consultant, London, England “I have been applying the learnings of the course and following your advice, and I am already starting to see the results. My blogs have been having great feedback from people, I am continuously being invited to speak at conferences, I'm weeks from launching my own podcast series and learning program, and I’m writing my first book.” The best investment I made all year! Jacqueline Wales, CEO, The Fearless Factor @ Work, San Francisco, CA “Becoming part of Dorie’s Recognized Expert program was the best investment I made all year. Not only is the content phenomenal, but I was blown away by the caliber of people in her community. I’ve done a lot of programs in my career, and nothing matches what Dorie has created, and the community she serves.” My only complaint is that I wish I'd joined earlier! Diana Wu David, Fast Company contributor and Founder, Future Proof Lab, Hong Kong, China “The Recognized Expert course helped me market and monetize my book, Future Proof. It’s now an Amazon best-seller, and I developed an email list from scratch, an online course, and a lucrative speaking career I didn't even know was possible until I saw what some of the other amazing people in the community were doing. I’ve made lifelong friendships that have supported my journey, which also includes writing for Harvard Business Review, Fast Company, Inc., and others - including in collaboration with other members of the Recognized Expert community. My only complaint is that I wish I'd joined earlier!" The best investment you can make in yourself Lisa DeAngelis, PhD, Director, Center for Collaborative Leadership, Boston, MA “Dorie's Recognized Expert course is so much more than a course. In addition to strong content, Dorie has created a community of experts who all actively work to support one another, whether that be in starting/growing a business, becoming a published author, garnering keynote opportunities, and more. The value of having access to the content for life, in itself, exceeds the cost of the course. When you couple this with the ongoing learning opportunities that she offers and the community, this is the best investment you can make in yourself.” “Practical and far-sighted solutions” Ravindra Kondekar, software scientist and personal productivity expert , Mumbai, India “The solutions in the Recognized Expert course are always practical, far-sighted and ethical. Dorie herself is very down to earth and approachable. She is always energetic, especially when communicating with students.” Inspires and helps me grow my consulting business! David Wells, CEO, Wells Consulting, Washington, DC “Dorie Clark is a brilliant thought leader in career and personal development. While she is respected and highly sought after in the corporate world, I also found her very personal and helpful to me even as a solo entrepreneur. Her concepts have, and continue to, inspire and help me to grow my consulting business.” I've learned how to step into my power Amy Clark, CHRO and executive coach, Philadelphia, PA "Being part of the Recognized Expert community and learning from your online program has helped me step into my power and has inspired how I can have a greater impact in the world of leadership and growth." What Does the Course Cost, and Is There a Payment Plan? The Recognized Expert® course is $2495, analogous to the price of a graduate-level course at the top business schools where I teach. (Except that no business school offers courses on this topic. If you want to learn this material, this course is the place to do it.) There is a slightly more expensive multi-payment option, which spreads payment out over four months. This is definitely trying to create an incentive - I strongly recommend payment upfront so you will both save money and have an enhanced level of commitment to learning in the course. Testimonials Aligns with my values Dr John Blakey, CEO Executive Coach/Author/Speaker, United Kingdom “The Recognized Expert course has been a real blessing! So neatly packaged up into bite-sized video chunks that can be accessed any time, any place. A comprehensive tour of all the challenges involved in taking the next step on the thought leadership journey. And Dorie's style is refreshing - warm, personable and avoiding the 'heavy sell' brashness of many of her peers. She showcases a brand of thought leadership that aligns with my own values as a modest person who wishes to make an immodest impact. Thank you, Dorie, for sharing your expertise with the world and inspiring others to do the same.” A game-changer in my professional growth Linda Belabed, PhD, nutrition coach for leaders, France "Joining the REx course has been a game-changer in my professional growth. The training is incredibly in-depth, packed with numerous examples and strategies to apply. The access to the community is invaluable—you meet high-caliber individuals, both personally and professionally, who inspire you every day. Since joining, I’ve made significant progress and moved my career forward in a highly effective way. What I love most about this course: the outstanding quality and depth, lifetime access, the ability to progress at my own pace, and the meaningful relationships and opportunities it fosters. Plus, having a strong network to turn to for professional challenges makes all the difference—you never feel alone, and that’s truly priceless." “My only regret is I didn’t do this 5 years ago” Colleen Paulson, Career Advisor, Pittsburgh, PA “Once I started the Recognized Expert® program, I started reaching out to other participants on LinkedIn to introduce myself. It turns out another program member had a business referral for me - I landed the client and paid for over half of my program investment within the first week…I'm so excited with my results so far and highly recommend the program. I had been on the fence for years and my only regret is that I didn't do this 5 years ago.” The program works! Sean O’Grady, founder & CEO, Workbrand "Good news - your program works! I started content marketing on LinkedIn in the first half of this year and quickly landed 2 six-figure contracts." How to Register If you're trying to figure out whether the course is the right fit for you, or you have any questions, let's talk directly. Please note that there are no refunds for the course, because I only want people to join who are fully committed. Do not join if you aren't sure! Research has shown that people who are "all in" are more likely to do the work and therefore get better results - which is our goal, after all. I want you to make a decision you feel great about and will advise you directly about whether I think the course will be helpful to you based on where you are. Feel free to email me directly at [email&#160;protected] to talk further. And if you'd like to go ahead and sign up for the course, let's do it! I look forward to working with you & having you as part of our community of talented professionals. Pricing options - Sign up now $2,495.00 Regular price Enroll Now 4 x $750.00 Multi-Pay Option Enroll Now Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Fred Krawchuk, Entrepreneur and Former U.S. Special Forces Officer “If you want to grow your business or your following, this course will give you great practical knowledge and experience.” - Fred Krawchuk Testimonials I’ve gotten better name recognition and more clients! Gerry Valentine, Executive Coach and former Fortune 100 leader, New York, NY “My business has really grown as a result of completing Dorie's program. I feel like I'm now getting clients rather than having to recruit them or do business development directly. More word of mouth has started to occur, and I think that's from becoming more of a recognized expert. I’ve gotten better name recognition and more clients as a result of working with Dorie.” Two years later, and still one of the best decisions I’ve made! Amanda Gibson - Owner of Radix Strategy, LLC, Boise, Idaho "I can't put into words how incredibly grateful I am for the Recognized Expert group. Every interaction leaves me energized and hopeful. It’s a rare community - one that provides guidance, allows you to give back, and will truly meet you where you are.I can't think of any other way that I would have been able to access the things I needed to challenge me in the right ways. Two years later, and it's still one of the best decisions I've ever made. It's the gift that keeps on giving." A top-notch community led by a genuine pro Darcy Eikenberg, PCC, leadership and career coach, Bonita Springs, FL “I needed a community of like-minded professionals with high aspirations and a willingness to connect, experiment, and patiently do the real work of making an impact on the world. Dorie's Recognized Expert program hit the mark—a top notch community led by a genuine pro uniquely focused on the long game of success, not short-term hacks.” Exceeded my expectations Travis Scott, Recruitment Marketing Consultant & Coach , Spokane-Coeur, WA "The Recognized Expert course exceeded my expectations. Dorie (along with her guest interviews) has given me the tools to make becoming a recognized expert a reality. Added bonus: the Recognized Expert online community is surprisingly engaged and I've built many great professional connections and relationships." I’ve achieved my goal! Harsha Boralessa, Investor and Financial Services Expert, London, England "My goal was to launch a career development podcast and through Dorie's community, I found a number of podcasters, who were so generous with their time and advice. This provided the inspiration to successfully launch my ‘Reframe & Reset Your Career’ podcast, and I was also invited to appear as a guest on a podcast! I have become much more comfortable with social media and marketing and I've also made some amazing new friends.” The Recognized Expert course changed my views of myself Lynn Garbers, Executive and Team Coach, Melbourne, VIC "The Recognized Expert course changed my views of myself and what I uniquely have to offer. Now when I think, ‘Oh, someone else is already doing that - why bother?’, I counteract it with this thought: ‘My background and experiences give me a unique take on this topic, and how I put things together is way different, and the world needs to hear MY voice!’ How’s that for change? Yes!” I landed a book deal! Aviva Hirshfeld Legatt, Forbes contributor and Author, St. Martin’s Press, Bala-Cynwyd, PA “Through what I’ve learned in the Recognized Expert community, I not only landed a book deal, but I now have the know-how to promote it and get good press for it.” Exceeded my expectations Liza Andrews, Self-development and Executive Coach, New York, NY “[During the pandemic], I had to reinvent my business completely. Thanks to the Recognized Expert course, I was able to keep what I was making and even obtain more clients. I fully recovered, even though it was during quarantine, using strategies from the course. It exceeded my expectations, changed my business, and kept me financially stable. Your Recognized Expert course is really spectacular! Great things have happened since I started it!" A watershed experience! Mike Arnold, Outdoor Writer, Bishop, GA “This course was a watershed experience. It provides the necessary information and tools to help someone like me build status in a new field. From designing a credibility statement to identifying and making connections with key influencers, Dorie led my fellow coursemates and I step-by-step toward becoming Recognized Experts. Thank you, Dorie! Job well done!” Helped me attract top-level clients Michael Wenderoth, Executive Coach, Madrid, Spain "The course has helped me take strategic steps to pitch and write, define my unique brand, build a network, and create a small but fiercely devoted community of high-quality clients. As a result, it increased my confidence and accelerated the quantity and quality of articles I have published in Harvard Business Review, Forbes, and IE Insights. This in turn led to more publication and speaking opportunities, which has attracted top-level clients, dramatically grown my coaching practice, and — most importantly — helped me create a business that works best for me." Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Mita Mallick, Wall Street Journal bestselling author How Do I Know if Recognized Expert® is Right for Me? Here are some frequently asked questions about the Recognized Expert course: What if I don't know what my breakthrough idea is? That's totally OK. The course teaches you how to identify your breakthrough idea. To clarify, the course is not right for you if you're reinventing and have no idea what direction you want to take or what field you want to be in. But if you have a sense of where you'd like to make your mark – for instance, in healthcare consulting, or being a social media strategist or a human rights attorney or a wealth manager or an executive coach - this course helps guide you through the process of discovering your distinctive ideas and the contribution you can make. What if I'm not sure I'm an expert? Many of us have had doubts at one point or another about whether we're really qualified. In fact, there's a module in the course about "Imposter Syndrome" and how to overcome it. If you have no training or experience, then of course Recognized Expert won't magically help with that. But if you're a smart professional who has been working hard and you know in your heart you have something to offer, Recognized Expert helps teach you the skills and strategies to get your ideas more widely heard. What if I get busy for a while and can't fully participate? Not a problem. You have lifetime membership in the course, so you can return to it anytime when you're less busy. All live sessions are recorded, as well. Is the course relevant if I work inside a corporation and don't want to be an entrepreneur? Yes - many Recognized Expert participants work inside corporations and are using what they learn in the course to become recognized for their knowledge and skills inside their companies (including many Fortune 500 firms). This helps professionals become more valuable to their employers by raising their internal profile and gaining recognition for their contributions. By refining their messaging and ideas, participants can position themselves as thought leaders within their corporate environment, attracting the opportunity for promotions and to make a bigger contribution. I don't live in a major city (or I don't live in the US). Will this be a problem? No - the course is 100% online, so you can consume the material whenever & wherever it's convenient for you. We do have live monthly webinars (alternating timing to accommodate Recognized Expert friends in Europe and Asia), but if you can't make a given session, it's not an issue: 1) you can email in any questions you'd like asked and yours will always be handled first; and 2) all sessions are recorded so you can watch them the next day, or at your convenience. Are the strategies you share applicable outside the US? Short answer: yes. Many participants in the Recognized Expert course & community come from countries outside the US (England, Australia, Italy, Slovenia, Chile, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Mauritius, Nigeria, and Hong Kong, to name just a few). This course is about applying universally applicable strategies - that work in any cultural context - about how to identify your strengths, build a solid network, and apply your skills in a way so that they're understood and appreciated by others. It’s definitely *not* about forcing anyone to do chest-banging self-promotion or employ branding techniques they’re not comfortable with. But what if I hate writing? It's not a problem if you don't want to write articles or a book. There are many paths to becoming a recognized expert, and the course helps you identify the strategies that will work best for you. It's not one-size-fits-all, so it enables you to personalize your approach. How advanced do you have to be in order to take the course? What if I just started my business? It's never too early to start the process of building your reputation in the marketplace. In fact, a number of Recognized Expert participants started the course several years before officially launching their businesses, because they wanted to build a foundation to move into entrepreneurship more seamlessly. The key question for you here is around how to allocate your time. Some new entrepreneurs have more urgency around cash flow and therefore need to spend most of their time with immediate cash generating activities (which, sadly, becoming a Recognized Expert is not: it takes time to show results). But if you have time that you can afford to put toward this long-term activity, that's fantastic, because it gives you a critical advantage a few years down the road. Does the course provide certification or continuing education credits? Not really. If you would like a certificate upon completion, I'm glad to provide one. But to be clear, the Recognized Expert course is intended as a personal learning tool for you, and we don't have an arrangement with various entities that require certification or credits. This is an investment in your personal growth, rather than something that would help you meet a specific requirement. Money is tight. How quickly will I see a return on my investment? Please don't join the course. Becoming a Recognized Expert takes time, and though it varies, it's often 2-3 years of consistent effort before you start to see meaningful results. To truly enjoy the course and be able to get the maximum value out of it, you need to have a long-term time frame. How is the course different from your books? The Recognized Expert® course contains *60+ hours* of recorded material, so it goes into much more depth than is possible in my books - even if you've read all of them. Additionally, there's the interaction with me and with other course participants in our online community, and lifetime access to our monthly webinars. It's a much more experiential, intensive process than simply reading the books. I'm in my 60s (or 70s). Is the course appropriate for me? There are many members of the Recognized Expert ® community in their 60s and 70s - even a few in their 80s! (Thanks to one of our great community members, there's even an independently organized group of Recognized Expert Women Over 50, who convene regularly both online and in person!) The course is appropriate whether you're expanding your expert brand in a career you've been in all your life, or building one in a 'second career/second act' where you'd like to make an impact. The only reason it wouldn't be a fit because of age is if you're planning to retire - as in, completely stop working - in just a year or two. But if your retirement horizon is longer, or if you'd like to keep doing interesting and meaningful things in your retirement, then it can be a great way to connect with others and make your work even more impactful. How much do we get to interact with you personally? Recognized Expert® is obviously different from 1-1 coaching or participating in a mastermind experience, which features a lot of personal contact. But I always try to make myself as accessible as possible through our monthly live sessions, as well as interacting frequently and answering questions in our online community. What platform do you use for the online community? We have a very active LinkedIn Group. If I don't like social media, can I still connect with other course participants? Short answer: yes. Our LinkedIn group is great, but there are other ways to meet community members, too, including participating in our live monthly learning sessions, live meetups in various cities, and periodic matching with accountability partners for those who'd like to make new friends and connections. What time do the live monthly sessions take place? We set the schedule of live monthly sessions about 3-4 months in advance, so you can plan ahead. We typically alternate every month between "European/Middle East friendly hours" and "Asia/Australia friendly hours," so that everyone can be included. Typically, this means sessions take place at either 12pm US Eastern or 8pm US Eastern. All sessions are recorded, and if you can't make one, you can always email me and (if there's a guest speaker) I'll ask any questions you have on your behalf. Testimonials Recognized Expert works, I am living proof! Michael Leckie, consultant and author of The Heart of Transformation, Portland, OR “I have been a student of Dorie's guidance for many years and became a member of her Recognized Expert community. Under her tutelage I have built a global brand and developed a successful and varied business working with the C-suites of companies that range from small private equity-backed technology firms to Fortune 20 industry giants. I have also written a well-received book and increased my demand as a keynote speaker and advisor. If you yearn to own your life and career, no matter who you work for, or where, Dorie is your go-to guide.” I landed my first paid speaking gig! Ellie Rich-Poole, The Recruitment Coach, London, England “I joined the Recognized Expert Course, having run my coaching business for over 4 years, to learn more about developing my brand and visibility. I have thoroughly enjoyed it and come away with actionable ideas that I am working through and already seeing results from. This week I landed my first paid speaking gig! Dorie is a fabulous combination of credible and successful, with a down-to-earth personality and a great sense of humour.” I now have a clear strategy! Manuel Ancizu, Corporate Project Quality Manager, Europe/Middle East/Africa, Pamplona, Spain “I'm so grateful to Dorie for this Recognized Expert journey. I've gained confidence and have a clear strategy towards my vision. Dorie is always there, supporting, giving advice and inspiration; in addition, being part of her high-profile, vibrant, supportive community is invaluable. I'm happy that I made the decision to join the Recognized Expert course.” The real deal! Josephine Lombardi, Ph.D., Associate Professor, St. Augustine's Seminary, Scarborough, Ontario “Dorie Clark's Recognized Expert Course provided a much-needed boost of inspiration. I have already used many of the skills acquired through the course and I highly recommend it to anyone desiring to take their thoughts and gifts to the next level. Don't miss this opportunity to learn from this master of coaching and business development." The best way to broaden your reach Kuzeyhan Ozdemir, Disruptive technologies consultant, Washington, DC “If only a few people know that you’re a domain expert (and you’d like to broaden your reach), if you’re not sure about how to sail towards the next chapter of your life, and if you’d like to be part of a supportive and caring community, the Recognized Expert program is the best choice for you.” An engaged community of outstanding, like-minded people! Lara Quie, executive coach for attorneys, Singapore, Singapore “I found this course to be amazing value for the money, given the value that you get, and especially since you get lifetime membership and access to the community. Signing up is a no-brainer and has helped me considerably on my personal journey.” One of my best investments! Andrea Goseco, Global Executive Coach "Just wanted to thank you again for the Recognized Expert course. It is really one of my best investments. The combination of the course and the community is so powerful. This has helped me be more intentional in thinking about who I am and how I can use my strengths to help others." I credit my success to the Recognized Expert community Roberta Sydney, corporate board member and former CEO, Boston, MA “The fact that I now sit on one board that announced it’s going public via SPAC, chair the Nominating committee for another board and was recently elected as the board chair of a large private civil construction company is in large part due to being a recognized expert. I credit my “overnight success”—that was years in the making - to the Recognized Expert community and the wonderful learning, support and guidance." This course just saved me 3-5 years! Kathryn Valentine, McKinsey advisor, former retail executive, and founder of Worthmore Negotiations, Atlanta, GA "Joining the Recognized Expert community helped catapult my company into an entirely new universe of opportunities. In fact, Dorie's insights helped me get my work into major publications, including the Harvard Business Review, the Wall Street Journal, and Fast Company. I can attribute almost $500,000 in work directly to those articles. Prior to joining Recognized Expert, I had fallen for a few other communities that, once the money was paid, didn’t actually deliver on the promise made. This is different. You will learn insights here that you can't get elsewhere. You'll have to put in the work, but Dorie's insights and the community's support can easily cut YEARS off your path to success. This is great stuff. THANK YOU. I think this course just saved me 3-5 years." Excellent ROI! Robin Taub, financial consultant and author, Toronto, Canada “The Recognized Expert program delivered excellent ROI (return on investment). The course content was engaging and filled with actionable strategies and tactics that I was able to apply to my business of speaking and book sales. Dorie is extremely generous in sharing her best practices and hard-won lessons, and the community has that same generous spirit. There is a wealth of information and I have made many valuable connections. I also appreciate having lifetime access to the content, the community and the monthly webinars. Highly recommended!” Testimonial from Ren Saguil B2B sales specialist, New Zealand Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Author of "Hire the Right Virtual Assistant" Melissa Smith "I knew at that moment I made a game-changing decision" - Melissa Smith Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Thinkers50 Radar Thinker, Corporate Executive, and Intrapreneur Jenny Fernandez "The best investment that I have made since business school." - Jenny Fernandez Testimonials More than recouped the value of my investment within the first week! Gena Cox, PhD, industrial psychologist and executive coach, Florida “I put so much of the content of this course to immediate use, I more than recouped the value of my investment within the first week! I quickly developed a clarity of vision and a concrete action plan for starting the journey to my entrepreneurial future. Now, I can’t wait to do it all. This course was the kick-in-the-pants I needed! Thanks Dorie, for helping me learn things I did not even know I needed to learn - my *life* is different since joining Recognized Expert. I feel as if I have (finally) identified my purpose for being on the planet. Now I am willing to be visible because it is the only way to get my message out. I have gained personal and professional courage from the Recognized Expert journey. And, as Dorie predicted, ideal clients are coming to me, rather than me pursuing them. Priceless!" An incredible community Maren Gube, PhD, McGill International Institute of Education, Montreal, Quebec “There is a saying that you become like the people you spend the most time with. I would like nothing better than to become like the incredible group of people in the Recognized Expert community: brilliant, accomplished, dedicated, courageous, and generous. And the course material offers helpful structure and resources for becoming recognized for my expertise.” Gave me the motivation I needed! Padma Edirisinghe, freelance graphic web designer "The Recognized Expert course connects like-minded people to share their insights and thrive. Dorie and the Recognized Expert participants gave me motivation I needed - two thumbs up! Thank you, Dorie and RExers!” I had a piece published in both Fast Company and HBR this week! Mita Mallick, Former Fortune 500 head of Diversity & Inclusion, New York, NY “Since joining your Recognized Expert Course, I have grown my following to over 100,000 followers on LinkedIn. I started my own podcast, which is part of LinkedIn’s podcast network. I now contribute regularly to HBR, Fast Company, Adweek and Entrepreneur. Honestly, it has been a dream come true…and building a community got me on Wiley’s radar to land a book deal!” “Spurs you to get even better!” Jennifer Fondrevay, Author, Speaker, and Consultant, Chicago, IL “Taking Dorie’s Recognized Expert course is like hiring a personal trainer at your gym. You’ve got the membership and you could go any day or time. But you commit seriously when you hire a personal trainer, and the benefit of that is the confidence it builds in you. You want to get better, and you meet people in the class at different levels and they spur you on to get even better. That’s what it’s like to work with Dorie and be part of the Recognized Expert community.” “A transformational journey” Yasmina Khelifi, senior project manager, Paris, France "The energy, kindness and sharing of the Recognized Expert community has pushed me to take action - and thanks to the warm and friendly atmosphere, I’ve felt at ease. I have now launched my website and a podcast, something I would have never previously thought of doing. Now bloggers contact me to publish on their websites, and I've written for Harvard Business Review! I've met authors, coaches, and communication experts from all over the world. This is a fantastic and transformational journey. It makes you think, take action, and open your mind to new ideas. All that would not have happened if Dorie had not created this amazing community. Thank you.” “Working with Dorie is a highlight” Daniel Lieberman, Fortune 500 advisor and former CEO, Seattle’s Pike Place Market , Seattle, WA “I cannot even think of Dorie without the coupling the characteristics “brilliant and generous!" She brings her heart and mind to her work in such clear, compelling, and useful ways. Working with Dorie is a highlight for me that continues to shine.” Helped me refine my business and my messaging! Lizabeth Wesely-Casella, CEO, Washington, DC “Before I became active with the Recognized Expert course, I was wasting a lot of time and energy. Through the course, I’ve been able to sharpen my message so that anyone, in any circumstance, can quickly understand what my firm does. The course is a wonderful mix of highly qualified professionals and decision makers, led by an insightful and creative moderator.” So much personal & career value! Carolyn Hyde , sales and marketing leader, Bethesda, MD “Not only does Dorie’s Recognized Expert course provide you with the mechanics of what & how, but perhaps even more importantly, she inspires us to feel confident about the uniqueness that we each bring. I can’t recall another class that has provided me with so much personal & career value. As a result of participating in the Recognized Expert course, I have taken the leap & have approached a VC with whom I’d not spoken in 10 years & have secured my first client. Your course got me ‘action ready.’” Enabled me to ‘move up a gear’ in my work! Susannah Chambers, team coach, London, England “Being part of this course, hearing Dorie's superb insights and meeting so many cool and knowledgeable other people from around the world enabled me to 'move up a gear' in my work, which recently included speaking for Microsoft. The Recognized Expert community inspires me daily and I know this course is going to elevate my ability to create positive change in the world. I would highly recommend anybody seeking to be recognised for their expertise to sign up.” Join Recognized Expert Register now - $2495 Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Photographer, Author, and Executive Coach Jeffrey Shaw “I have a system now that I never had before, that’s enabling me to put content out on a weekly basis.” - Jeffrey Shaw Testimonials The relations I've forged from this group have been invaluable! Prina Shah, consultant, Perth, Australia “Since joining the Recognised Expert Community, I have not only learned an array of things to develop myself, my business, and my professional brand, I have also connected with exceptional and like minded thought leaders with a similar drive and passion. I've had the opportunity to expand my global network and I also have an accountability buddy who is a fellow Australian member. The relationships that I have forged from this group have been invaluable. And the best thing - it is a lifelong membership with no strings attached!” Tripled my prices! Irina Cozma, Ph.D., Executive and Career Coach, Charlotte, NC "I tripled my prices this year. I am learning so much from this community!" A smart, inclusive community! Barbara Pagano, author of The 60-Something Crisis: How to Live an Extraordinary Life in Retirement, Nashville, TN "A gathering of smart, inspiring individuals who are inclusive and supportive. What a community! " Three paid speaking engagements! Angela Burgess, advisor, speaker, executive director, Houston, TX “I’ve made so many positive, supportive connections in the Recognized Expert community. My new business model is launched and I have 3 paid speaking engagements lined up this year – the first in my life!” The best investment I've made in myself! Aline Badr, executive coach, speaker, brand strategist, Barcelona, Spain "This has been the best investment I’ve made in myself. It’s the “fire under my bum” I’ve needed for years!" Exactly the compass and motivation I’ve needed! Cliff Goldmacher, GRAMMY-recognized, #1 hit songwriter, Middle River, MD "This is one of the easiest testimonials I’ve ever been asked to write! The Recognized Expert course and community (wow, the community!) are exactly the compass heading and motivation I’ve needed to continue building my thought leadership and business practice. Thank you for everything you’ve done - and do - for aspiring recognized experts!" Dorie Clark’s methods work! Samuele Tini, nonprofit sustainability & development expert , Nakuru, Kenya “I can say Dorie Clark’s methods work! And it is a long game! I am organizing my first webinar on Impact Investing and B Corps, with 3 leading B Corps and a Cambridge Judge Business School professor in the UK. I do not think 18 months ago, when I joined the Recognized Expert community and started the course, they would have even accepted!” So valuable to be part of such an amazing community! Corinna Freitag, PhD - Executive Coach, Advisor & Speaker, Lehrte, Germany “Recognized Expert is an exceptional support to navigate through all the obstacles towards my big long-term vision of building my own successful business, and helps me reduce my feelings of overwhelm and anxiety. I love the course material, as it is short and to the point. It is so valuable to be part of such an amazing community.” Solid content, solid advice Laura A Gaines, MSW, LISW-S, LearnModelTeach.com, Columbus, OH “Recognized Expert contains months of solid content that requires you to think about what you want to accomplish, with solid advice about how to get there. Most importantly, it includes actual small group conversations (via zoom) with accomplished professionals. Dorie is the #1 encourager and connector. She has set the tone for insightful, and generous collaboration within the Recognized Expert community, creating a learning environment rich with opportunity.” I feel like I've found my people Tiffany Chang, Conductor, Boston, MA “Joining Dorie's Recognized Expert community was one of the best decisions I made to help me play the long game that is business and personal growth. I continue to gain value from regularly engaging with like-minded folks who inspire positive impact on the world, push me to level up, and celebrate my success. Great opportunities have organically emerged from these relationships, but most importantly, I feel like I've found my people.” Who is the Course NOT Right For? The course won't be a good fit if: You're unsure where you want your career to go. The course will only be helpful once you decide where you'd like to make your mark. You don't have to have everything figured out, but it's important to have chosen your general field. If you haven't decided this yet, the course may be premature for you. Money is a major concern. If you're in a financial position where you need urgent, immediate returns, this class is not right for you. Becoming a Recognized Expert® is a process that takes time, often several years, to come to fruition. It's enormously powerful for your career, but you need to have the patience and leeway to make the investment now and plan for the future. If money is an immediate concern, please don't enroll. You won't be able to enjoy or benefit from the course if you're feeling extreme financial pressure. Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Marketing Consultant Kris Marsh “I booked contracts that earned me more than double the cost of the course!” - Kris Marsh A goal of many Recognized Expert® community members is to write a book. So many have succeeded! Check out our growing list at dorieclark.com/rexbooks ! Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Dr. Aviva Hirschfeld Legatt, Ivy League College Admissions Officer “This course led to me getting my own Forbes column.” - Aviva Hirschfeld Legatt Recognized Expert® participants have gone on to win incredible accolades. Congratulations to our community members who were named among the Top 50 coaches in the world, and Thinkers50 "Radar Thinkers" for their contributions to thought leadership. Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Michael Wenderoth, Coach and Author of Get Promoted Course curriculum 1 Welcome to the Recognized Expert Course Welcome to the Recognized Expert™ Course Am I Qualified to Be a Recognized Expert? What Does It Take to Become a Recognized Expert? Book Recommendations for Recognized Expert Students 2 Find Your Breakthrough Idea What Is a Breakthrough Idea How to Identify Your Target Audience Will Your Audience Care About Your Big Idea? Is Your Idea Actually Unique? How Do You Talk About Your Breakthrough Idea What to Do If You Haven't Found What You're Passionate About When Your Passion and Your Profession Don't Align What If You Have More Than One Passion? Using the Niche Strategy Identifying Trends Creating a Market Gap Analysis Creating a Framework Conducting Research What If Someone Steals Your Idea? Homework Exercises - Find Your Breakthrough Idea Summary of Key Points - Finding Your Breakthrough Idea 3 Multiply Your Following How to Get Featured in Traditional Media What Social Channels Should You Be Using How Much Time Should You Spend on Social Media What Should You Share on Social Media How to Measure ROI in Social Media Growing Your Email List Homework Exercises - Multiply Your Following Summary of Key Points - Multiply Your Following 4 Overcome the Obstacles What If You're Not Getting Traction? Grappling with Self Doubt Who, Really, Can Become a Recognized Expert? When Can You Claim to be an Expert? Overcoming Imposter Syndrome What to Do When You Feel Discouraged What to Do When You Feel Paralyzed How to Focus on What Matters Most How to Structure Your Day to Be More Productive What Can You Outsource? Homework Exercises - Overcome the Obstacles Summary of Key Points - Overcome the Obstacles 5 Build a Powerful Network What Is a Power Network & Why Does It Matter? How to Connect with Peers Learning How to Talk About Yourself Networking as an Introvert Overcoming Internal Obstacles to Networking Who Should You Be Connecting With? Givers and Takers in Networking Making Your Networking More Efficient Mastering Follow Up Homework Exercises - Build a Powerful Network Summary of Key Points - Build a Powerful Network 6 Expand Your Public Profile What Should You Write About? How to Create Great Content How to Become a Guest Blogger How to Blog for High Profile Publications Should You Start Your Own Blog? How to Promote Your Blog How to Become a Podcast Guest Should You Start Your Own Podcast? How to Land Your First Speaking Gig What Should You Charge for Speaking? How to Land a TEDx Talk Creating Content vs. Networking How and When to Write a Book Proposal Should You Self-Publish or Traditionally Publish? Things to Keep in Mind About Self-Publishing How to Find an Agent How to Find a Publisher How to Market Your Book Successfully Homework Exercises - Expand Your Public Profile Summary of Key Points - Expand Your Public Profile 7 Next Steps - Putting It All Together How to Get Your Audience to Want What You're Offering How to Get High Level Clients to Come to You Setting Your Longer Term Vision What Does Success Really Look Like? Taking Action - What's Next? Summary of Key Points - Recognized Expert - Next Steps 8 Targeted Learning - Guest Expert Interviews Start Here - Resources & Pre-Reading - Learning from Guest Experts David Burkus on Becoming More Creative Shama Hyder on Multiplying Your Following Online Laura Vanderkam on Overcoming Procrastination and Becoming More Effective with Your Time John Corcoran on How to Connect with Influencers Jordan Harbinger on Expanding Your Profile through Podcasting Interview with Katherine Flynn, Literary Agent Lolly Daskal on Building Your Platform and Marketing Books Jason Bellini of the Wall Street Journal on How to Connect with Reporters 9 Monthly REx Webinars Special Dorie Clark Q&A webinar - How to Monetize January 2018: Jeffrey Shaw - Book Marketing February 2018: Dorie Clark - Intro to REx webinars March 2018: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A April 2018: Nancy Halpern - Interviews with Major Publications June 2018: Robbie Samuels - Effective Networking Strategies July 2018: Melissa Smith - Hiring and Working with a VA August 2018: Alisa Cohn - Build a Seven-Figure Coaching Business October 2018: Liz Scully - Launch and Run a Mastermind November 2018: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A December 2018: Ron Carucci - Building a Following January 2019: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A February 2019: Gina Warner - Breaking into the Associations Market April 2019: Randah Taher - Generating Ideas and Embracing Creativity Special Bonus - Idea Creation, Selection and Planning Tools from Randah Taher (to complement April 2019 webinar) June 2019: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A July 2019: Amii Barnard-Bahn - Becoming a Recognized Expert Inside a Corporation August 2019: Marie Incontrera - Landing a TEDx Talk September 2019: Dorie Clark - Online Course Creation October 2019: Dorie Clark - Getting to Know Fellow RExers November 2019: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A December 2019: Laura Gassner Otting - Breaking into Morning TV January 2020: Dorie Clark - Productivity Strategies for the New Year March 2020: Dorie Clark - Build a Healthy & Resilient Business - Part 1 March 2020: Dorie Clark - Build a Healthy & Resilient Business - Part 2 April 2020: Dorie Clark - Growth Strategies in the Pandemic May 2020: Ron Carucci - The Ups and Downs of Becoming a REx May 2020: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A June 2020: Marie Incontrera - Best Practices for Social Media July 2020: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A (Morning Session) July 2020: Dorie Clark - Open Q & A (Evening Session) August 2020: Robbie Samuels - Launching Your Own Podcast September 2020: Caroline Stokes - Journey of Becoming a REx October 2020: Jeffrey Shaw - Getting Booked on Podcasts October 2020: Meet the New REx Cohort and Ask Me Anything Q&A! October 2020: New RExer Intros and Ask Me Anything Session #2 November 2020: Ellen Cohen & Anne Buckingham - Legal Issues in RExing (Contracts, IP and More) December 2020: Dirk Schroeder - How to Build Your LinkedIn Following January 2021: Time Management and Productivity Strategies February 2021: Anne Buckingham and Ellen Cohen Return! More on Legal Issues in RExing (Corporations, Contracts, IP, etc.!) March 2021: Ask Me Anything Q&A Webinar for New RExers! March 2021: Second Ask Me Anything Q&A Webinar for New RExers! March 2021: Ellen Taafe, Sheila Stamps, and Amii Barnard-Bahn on How to Become a Corporate Board Member April 2021: REx "Mix and mingle" connection webinar hosted by Gena Cox, Robbie Samuels, and Julia Phelan April 2021: REx Collaboration - Insights from Diana Wu David, Jennifer Fondrevay, Jenny Lisk, and Tammy Gooler Loeb May 2021: Ask Me Anything Q&A with Dorie Clark June 2021: Mastering Book Proposals with Guest RExers Linda Popky and Jennifer Fondrevay July 2021: Leveraging the Value of Speaking Opportunities with Guest RExer Su-Yen Wong August 2021: How to Land a Book Deal with a Major Publisher with Guest RExer Aviva Legatt September 2021: RExing Inside Corporate with Guest RExers Mita Mallick, Paul Fairbrother, and Manuel Ancizu October 2021: Designing (or Redesigning) a Great Website with Special Guest Web Designer Ron Passaro November 2021: Creating Online Courses with Special Guest RExer Kathryn Valentine, plus Emily Weiss from course creation platform Thinkific December 2021: Ask Me Anything Q&A with Dorie Clark January 2022 - Goal Setting for the New Year with Special Guest RExers Liz Brunner and Gena Cox February 2022 - Turning Failures into Success with Special Guest RExers Rosemary Ravinal and Richard Bistrong March 2022 - How to Build an Audience Before You Sell an Offer with Special Guest RExer Robbie Samuels April 2022 - Ask Me Anything with Dorie Clark (plus special guest RExer Vicki Strull, discussing successful launch principles) May 2022 - How to Write for High Profile Publications (Especially HBR) with Guest RExer Ron Carucci May 2022 AUDIO VERSION - How to Write for High Profile Publications (Especially HBR) with Guest RExer Ron Carucci June 2022 - How to Pitch Media Successfully with Guest Expert Mary O'Donohue June 2022 - How to Pitch Media Successfully with Mary O'Donohue - AUDIO VERSION August 2022 - How to Navigate Davos and the World Economic Forum with Guest RExer Alisa Cohn Aug August 2022 - How to Navigate Davos and the World Economic Forum with Guest RExer Alisa Cohn - AUDIO VERSION September 2022 - The Secrets of Adjunct University Teaching with Guest RExer Sher Downing and Other Talented RExers - video September 2022 - The Secrets of Adjunct University Teaching with Guest RExer Sher Downing and Other Talented RExers - AUDIO October 2022 - How to Have a Good Night's Sleep with with Guest RExer Dr. Sunita Merriman - VIDEO October 2022 - How to Have a Good Night's Sleep with with Guest RExer Dr. Sunita Merriman - AUDIO November 2022 - Building Your YouTube Strategy with Guest RExers Deborah Grayson Riegel and Fei Wu November 2022 - Building Your YouTube Strategy with Guest RExers Deborah Grayson Riegel and Fei Wu - AUDIO November 2022 bonus webinar - spotlight on "Finding Your Breakthrough Idea" Nov 2022 bonus webinar - spotlight on "Finding Your Breakthrough Idea" AUDIO Dec 2022 - Multiply Your Following Q&A webinar Dec 2022 - Multiply Your Following Q&A webinar - AUDIO file Jan 2023 - Landing a Literary Agent with Guest RExer Tutti Taygerly Jan 2023 - Landing a Literary Agent with Guest RExer Tutti Taygerly - AUDIO Feb 2023 - Taking Your Book from Idea to Published with Guest RExer Linda Popky Feb 2023 - Taking Your Idea from Idea to Published with Guest RExer Linda Popky - AUDIO March 2023 - How to Use Photography Effectively for Branding, with Guest Raj Bandyopadhyay - VIDEO March 2023 - How to Use Photography Effectively for Branding, with Guest Raj Bandyopadhyay - AUDIO April 2023 - Using Generative AI Effectively, with RExers Kara Ebel, Robin Taub, Ren Saguil, Dahna Chandler- VIDEO April 2023 - Using Generative AI Effectively, with RExers Kara Ebel, Robin Taub, Ren Saguil, Dahna Chandler- AUDIO May 2023 - Optimizing Your Business for Your Lifestyle, with RExers Kathryn Valentine, Aline Badr, and Candela Iglesias - VIDEO May 2023 - Optimizing Your Business for Your Lifestyle, with RExers Kathryn Valentine, Aline Badr, and Candela Iglesias - AUDIO June 2023 - Leveraging Research in Your RExing with Guest RExers Janice Mandel, Kristin Wegner Guilfoyle, and Lisen Stromberg- VIDEO June 2023 - Leveraging Research in Your RExing with Guest RExers Janice Mandel, Kristin Wegner Guilfoyle, and Lisen Stromberg- AUDIO July 2023 - How to Take a Sabbatical with Guest RExers Annette Mason, Amii Barnard-Bahn, and Ali Davies VIDEO July 2023 - How to Take a Sabbatical with Guest RExers Annette Mason, Amii Barnard-Bahn, and Ali Davies AUDIO Sept. 2023 - Understanding Hybrid Publishing with Trena White of Page Two, plus RExers Gena Cox & Constance Dierickx VIDEO Sept 2023 - Understanding Hybrid Publishing - AUDIO Oct. 2023 - Breaking into the Paid Speaking Business - with Speakers Agent Amy Gray - VIDEO Oct. 2023 - Breaking into the Paid Speaking Business - with Speakers Agent Amy Gray - AUDIO Nov. 2023 - Ask Me Anything Q&A Webinar VIDEO Nov. 2023 - Ask Me Anything Q&A Webinar AUDIO Dec. 2023 - Video Strategies with Guest Star Kim Rittberg - VIDEO Dec. 2023 - Video Strategies with Guest Star Kim Rittberg - AUDIO Jan. 2024 - Effective LinkedIn Strategies with Guest RExers Navid Nazemian, Glory Edozien, Ludmila Praslova, and Julie Kratz - VIDEO Jan. 2024 - Effective LinkedIn Strategies with Guest RExers Navid Nazemian, Glory Edozien, Ludmila Praslova, and Julie Kratz - AUDIO Feb. 2024 - B2B Sales Strategies with Guest RExers Kathryn Valentine, Ren Saguil, and Jennifer Fondrevay VIDEO Feb. 2024 - B2B Sales Strategies with Guest RExers Kathryn Valentine, Ren Saguil, and Jennifer Fondrevay AUDIO March 2024 -Secrets of Commercial Book Publishing with Christina Rudloff, Acquisitions Editor from Wiley Publishing - VIDEO March 2024 - Secrets of Commercial Book Publishing with Christina Rudloff, Acquisitions Editor from Wiley Publishing - AUDIO April 2024 - The Journey to Thinkers50 Radar List with Ludmila Praslova and Heather Hansen - VIDEO April 2024 - The Journey to Thinkers50 Radar List with Ludmila Praslova and Heather Hansen - AUDIO May 2024 - Secrets of Writing for HBR and Other High Profile Publications with Guest Star Dagny Dukach - VIDEO May 2024 - Secrets of Writing for HBR and Other High Profile Publications with Guest Star Dagny Dukach - AUDIO June 2024 - Journey to Thinkers50 Radar List with Guest RExers Neri Karra Sillaman and Jenny Fernandez - VIDEO June 2024 - Journey to Thinkers50 Radar List with Guest RExers Neri Karra Sillaman and Jenny Fernandez - AUDIO July 2024 - Hybrid Publishing Discussion with Amplify Publishing - VIDEO July 2024 - Hybrid Publishing Discussion with Amplify Publishing - AUDIO September 2024 - Exploring Business Models with RExer Kathryn Valentine VIDEO September 2024 - Exploring Business Models with RExer Kathryn Valentine - AUDIO October 2024 - Navigating the REx Journey with RExers Richard Bistrong, Luis Velasquez, and Ron Carucci VIDEO October 2024 - Navigating the REx Journey with RExers Richard Bistrong, Luis Velasquez, and Ron Carucci - AUDIO November 2024 - Productivity Strategies with RExers Ravindra Kondekar, Cliff Goldmacher, Chris Fenning, and Darcy Eikenberg VIDEO November 2024 - Productivity Strategies with RExers Ravindra Kondekar, Cliff Goldmacher, Chris Fenning, and Darcy Eikenberg AUDIO December 2024 - Design the New Year You Love with Guest Star Ayse Birsel - VIDEO December 2024 - Design the New Year You Love with Guest Star Ayse Birsel - AUDIO January 2025 - Working Part Time Effectively - VIDEO January 2025 - Working Part Time Effectively - AUDIO Feb 2025 - Mastering Video - with Guest RExers Kim Rittberg, Gena Cox, Mira Brancu, and Diana Wu David - VIDEO Feb 2025 - Mastering Video - with Guest RExers Kim Rittberg, Gena Cox, Mira Brancu, and Diana Wu David - AUDIO March 2025 - Getting Booked on Podcasts and Excelling as a Guest - Guest RExers Kathryn Valentine,Laurie Gilbertson, Dino Cattaneo - VIDEO March 2025 - Getting Booked on Podcasts and Excelling as a Guest - Guest RExers Kathryn Valentine,Laurie Gilbertson, Dino Cattaneo - AUDIO April 2025 - Sales Strategies in Challenging Times with Guest RExer Lisa Earle McLeod VIDEO April 2025 - Sales Strategies in Challenging Times with Guest RExer Lisa Earle McLeod AUDIO May 2025 - Multiple Income Streams May 2025 - Multiple Income Streams June 2025 - Email Lists with guest speaker Allea Grummert June 2025 - Email Lists with guest speaker Allea Grummert - AUDIO September 2025 - Understanding Website Analytics with RExer Philippa Gamse VIDEO September 2025 - Understanding Website Analytics with RExer Philippa Gamse AUDIO October 2025 - Overcoming Procrastination to Get Things Done! - with Guest RExers Scott Eblin, Annette Mason, Steven Mattos, Christina Ryan - VIDEO October 2025 - Overcoming Procrastination to Get Things Done! - with Guest RExers Scott Eblin, Annette Mason, Steven Mattos, Christina Ryan - AUDIO November 2025 - Mastering YouTube in the AI Age with Guest Speaker Liron Segev - VIDEO November 2025 - Mastering YouTube in the Age of AI with Guest Speaker Liron Segev - AUDIO December 2025 - Book Proposals and Agents with Guest Star Lucinda Halpern VIDEO December 2025 - Book Proposals and Agents with Guest Star Lucinda Halpern AUDIO Feb 2026 - Substack Explained - with Guest RExers Tim Bruce, Bree Groff, Robin Taub - VIDEO Feb 2026 - Substack Explained - with Guest RExers Tim Bruce, Bree Groff, and Robin Taub - AUDIO March 2026 REx webinar AI uses - Kelly Byrnes, Aleksandr Zhuk, John Blakey, Miki Feldman Simon VIDEO March 2026 REx webinar - Using AI today - AUDIO May 2026 REx webinar - LinkedIn Growth with Lorraine Lee May 2026 REx webinar - LinkedIn Growth Strategies with Lorraine Lee AUDIO June 2026 REx webinar - Understanding PR with Smith Publicity VIDEO June 2026 REx webinar - Understanding PR with Smith Publicity AUDIO July 2026 REx webinar - literary agent Bethany Saltman - VIDEO 10 Optional Bonus Material for Extra Learning (in case you want to dive into certain topics further) Breakthrough Idea: Dorie Clark Q&A Webinar Finding Your Breakthrough Idea Breakthrough Idea: Dorie Clark 90 Minute Review Webinar on Finding Your Breakthrough Idea Breakthrough Idea: March 2017 Finding Your Breakthrough Idea Q&A Webinar Multiply Your Following: Dorie Clark Q&A webinar Multiply Your Following Multiply Your Following: Webinar Review of Key Principles Multiply Your Following: April 2017 review webinar Overcome the Obstacles: Webinar Review Overcome the Obstacles: Dorie Clark Q&A Webinar Overcome the Obstacles: Webinar May 2017 Build a Powerful Network: Webinar Review Build a Powerful Network: Q&A webinar Build a Powerful Network: Additional Q&A webinar Expand Your Public Profile: Webinar Review Expand Your Public Profile: Q&A webinar Expand Your Public Profile: Q&A webinar May 2017 "Ask Me Anything" Bonus Q&A webinar "Ask Me Anything" Additional Bonus Webinar - 2016 June 2023 "Ask Me Anything" webinar - VIDEO June 2023 "Ask Me Anything" webinar - AUDIO June 2023 "Ask Me Anything" webinar #2 - VIDEO June 2023 "Ask Me Anything" webinar #2 - AUDIO Testimonials If you're at a crossroads, join this class Kyungmi Choi, Consultant, Fukuoka, Japan “I am a Korean who has worked in Japan for over 15 years. I reached my 6-figure income as a new solo consultant, but I did not know what the next stage is and how to get there. If you’re at a crossroads like me or do not know where to go, joining Dorie's class would be helpful for you. My life has undergone significant changes since joining the class, including decreasing my working days (while keeping my current income) and learning about online content. If you are from a non-English-speaking country such as Japan or Korea, do not worry too much about the language. I'll welcome you and we have other members in Asia!” My first article was published in HBR! Rajani Katta MD, Clinical Faculty at Baylor College of Medicine and McGovern Medical School “Just wanted to share that my first article was published in Harvard Business Review Ascend. I couldn't have done it without the Recognized Expert course and the community - the course, because it taught me about high profile publications and their importance; the recorded webinars, because others shared how they got started; and the community, because I've gotten to see people during their journey, and seen their dedication and wins. Thanks for putting this out into the world and helping me/us on our journeys!” I’ve found support, friends, and accountability partners Maura Mitchell, Managing Director, Entrepreneurial Services, Women's Business Development Center "Thanks so much for starting the Recognized Expert group. It's been a big help to me. I've found support, friends, and accountability partners to keep me on track. This program came at just the right time as I work on sharing my grief journey to help others. This group means a lot to me." A wealth of information! Dorie Klissas, Marketing & Communications Expert, New York, NY "I can't tell you how much I have learned from and enjoyed the Recognized Expert class. There is so much wonderful material, and I have studied all of the special guest interviews. It’s a wealth of information." I can truly see the positive impact Dr. Linda Belabed, nutritionist and consultant, Vichy, France "I wanted to say that I really appreciated these past few months in the group. I’m progressing slowly in my development, but many things have already started to unfold. I’m receiving more and more opportunities as a speaker, within my local community with the city hall, and to give trainings. I can truly see the positive impact your program has had on me, and I intend to continue on this path. I’ve also started writing articles on LinkedIn, and I’ve discovered that I love it. It feels like it frees up mental space as I post them, because these are ideas I’ve held onto and mulled over for so long without ever really sharing them. I hope this will help me mature my ideas and eventually lead me to write my first book." One of the more powerful learning experiences of my life! Nell Derick Debevoise Dewey, keynote speaker and advisor, New York City “Recognized Expert has been one of the more powerful learning experiences of my life (and with 5 degrees and myriad professional training courses under my belt, that's saying something!). It's impeccably organized and delivered, which is less common than you'd think with online, asynchronous programming. And there's a rich community element in formal (monthly high-quality topical webinars) and informal ways (LinkedIn forum, peer-led local and interest groups, side events at relevant other gatherings, eg Thinkers50). Finally, the culture is truly generous, curious, and impact-minded: a self-perpetuating cycle led and reinforced by Dorie Clark's own example. If you're looking to level up your breakout idea and its visibility, Recognized Expert is the place for you!” Enroll Now! $2495.00 You might also like: All Courses Writing for High Profile Publications (3) 4.7 average rating Writing for High Profile Publications teaches professionals how to break into prominent publications in their industry, enhancing their brand and helping them spread their ideas further. 38 Lessons $995.00 Testimonials I doubled the number of speaking invitations Candela Iglesias Chiesa, Global Health Specialist, Oslo, Norway “In a year, I have doubled the number of speaking invitations I get, and now have a consistent presence and growth on LinkedIn. I've developed and sold my first course…The clarity on how to achieve my goals and the belief that I can achieve them are the most important changes. As well as feeling like I have a support network to help me along the way. It's priceless to have a group where you can ask everything from very basic to very specific questions, and where you can be vulnerable.” I've fallen in love with writing again Karen Thomas-Bland, Founder and Director, Seven Transformation Ltd., London, UK “Thanks to the Recognized Expert course, I’ve fallen in love with writing again, and I’m part of a great community and feel inspired by what people achieve. My own particular wins: publishing many articles, being a podcast guest, securing client contracts directly from thought leadership articles and publishing a new website. Next is writing the book!” A lifetime learning type of group Heather Torretta, Founder & CEO of Prevailing Wage Consulting, St. Louis, MO “Recognized Expert is a lifetime learning, promote-each-other type of group, and I love it! My business has grown and I've learned quite a few valuable skills needed to be an entrepreneur.” Before Recognized Expert I was scared of pitching Ludmila Praslova, Professor of Psychology and contributor to Harvard Business Review, Orange County, CA “Before Recognized Expert, I knew I could write, but I was scared of pitching. In the last 10 months, I published 7 Fast Company and 5 Harvard Business Review articles, with 2 more in the pipeline, and 2 more requested by HBR. Every article resulted in speaking invites.” Builds confidence to take risks Teresa Ramos, Coach Mentor & Instructor, Madrid, Spain “Thanks to Recognized Expert,I feel more confident, as whenever I have a question or need advice on something, I can always go to the group and ask. There is this amazing community willing to share their knowledge and expertise. This makes me feel very confident when taking risks or tackling new challenges.” I don't feel alone as a sole practitioner Jann Freed, Consultant and Adjunct Professor, Des Moines, IA “Since joining Recognized Expert, I don't feel so alone as a sole practitioner. I feel supported with resources and connections. I have tried to lift up others through my podcast and Training Magazine articles, and others have agreed to help me in my book launch.” Dorie entered my life just when I needed her most Amii Barnard-Bahn, JD - Executive coach & consultant, San Francisco, CA “In many ways, I found it easier to serve for 20+ years as a Fortune Global 50 executive than to strike out on my own. Dorie entered my life just when I needed her most. Dorie was like a heat-seeking missile that pinpointed exactly where I needed to focus my business efforts. It’s been especially meaningful to be a part of her generous and brilliant Recognized Expert community that I now consider my professional family.” The best personal development investment I have made in myself Anastasia Henry, Executive Director, American Transplant Foundation “Joining the Recognized Expert course has been the best personal development investment I have made in myself. After reading Dorie's books, I felt inspired to get involved in the amazing community she has created. Although it seemed like a significant investment at the time, I trusted that Dorie is the best in her field. And she truly is. There is nothing out there like Recognized Expert family. Since joining this community, I have found it to be my go-to source for inspiration, advice, and support. The connections I have made here have been beautiful and have truly helped me to level up both my personal and professional life." An investment with priceless returns Heather Hansen, Author of Unmuted and Thinkers50 Radar Thinker “Being a part of Dorie Clark's Recognized Expert community is an investment with priceless returns. I am inspired on a daily basis by this community of talented and sincerely supportive people. They show me what is possible and then guide me to achieve the same results. Dorie has created a caring and collaborative community that has helped to skyrocket my success since I joined.” Outstanding course Susan Peppercorn, executive coach and career strategist "If you want to learn how to become a recognized expert, you've come to the right place. Dorie walks the walk not only talks the talk. She developed a three-part, action-oriented framework for demystifying the process of gaining market visibility; creating content, establishing social proof and building a network. Through videos and class discussions, Dorie breaks down each of the three segments into easily digestible bite-size chunks. A highlight of the course were interviews that she conducted with other luminaries to get find out how they developed their reputation. This is the second course I've taken for entrepreneurs who want to grow their following. The first seemed like an 8-week commercial to purchase someone else's services. Rest assured, in Dories course you will get pure, excellent content!" Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Luis Velasquez, Managing Partner and Executive Coach for Velas Coaching LLC “I have become a contributor to high profile publications.” - Luis Velasquez Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Parenting Coach Liz Kauffmann “Really specific details on how to do everything to help yourself become known.” - Liz Kauffmann Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Consultant and Professional Speaker Robbie Samuels “The biggest thing I got out of this course is confidence and direction.” - Robbie Samuels Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial Aleksandr Zhuk, Founder and President of the Artificial Intelligence Management Forum “An opportunity to meet great people, learn from a great expert, and evolve.” - Aleksandr Zhuk Watch Intro Video Video Testimonial College Admissions Consultant Marlena Corcoran “My book manuscript that has been languishing for two years is now finished.” - Marlena Corcoran Author: The Long Game, Reinventing You, Entrepreneurial You, and Stand Out Dorie Clark Dorie Clark teaches executive education for Columbia Business School and is the author of The Long Game, Entrepreneurial You, Reinventing You, and Stand Out, which was named the #1 Leadership Book of the Year by Inc. magazine. A former presidential campaign spokeswoman, the New York Times described her as an “expert at self-reinvention and helping others make changes in their lives," and she has been named three times as one of the Top 50 Business Thinkers in the World by Thinkers50. Named the #1 Communication Coach in the World by the Marshall Goldsmith Leading Global Coaches Awards, Clark is a frequent contributor to the Harvard Business Review and hosts a weekly interview show for Newsweek. Recognized as a “branding expert” by the Associated Press, Inc., and Fortune, Clark is a marketing strategy consultant and speaker for clients including Google, Microsoft, Yale University, Fidelity, the U.S. State Department, and the World Bank. She's also the producer of a multiple Grammy-winning jazz album. You can download her free Long Game Strategic Thinking Self-Assessment at dorieclark.com/thelonggame Email Sign up now $2,495.00 Regular price Enroll now 4 x $750.00 Multi-Pay Option Enroll now Home All Courses © Copyright Dorie's Courses 2026 Teach online with Thinkific Open in a new window
