Source: https://www.amyegallo.com/newsletter-all/2024/4/24/how-to-respond-when-a-colleague-takes-credit-for-your-work
Retrieved: 2026-08-30

How to respond when a colleague takes credit for your work &mdash; AMY GALLO 1000ms 100vh 0 Skip to Content AMY GALLO About Resources Books Quiz Reading Lists Speaking Media Newsletter Contact Open Menu Close Menu AMY GALLO About Resources Books Quiz Reading Lists Speaking Media Newsletter Contact Open Menu Close Menu About Folder: Resources Back Books Quiz Reading Lists Speaking Media Newsletter Contact How to respond when a colleague takes credit for your work Apr 24 Written By Amy Gallo Have you ever done all of the work…and gotten none of the credit? There’s nothing more infuriating: You share an idea and hear a colleague repeat it at a meeting. You stay late to finish a presentation and your team member accepts the praise. You spearhead the completion of an overdue project and your boss tells the higher-ups it was all their doing. (By the way, this happens most often when you’re navigating unfair work situations with a “Political Operator”—one of eight archetypes I discuss in Getting Along .) But how should you handle it? If you’d like to receive these newsletters in your inbox, sign up below. Email Address Sign Up Thank you! 1. Should you speak up right then and there? Earlier in my career, I used to believe our hard work always speaks for itself… but I now know I was dead wrong. We definitely need credit for our contributions, and experts such as my former HBR colleague Karen Dillon and Kellogg professor Brian Uzzi agree. Here’s a summary of what I learned from them when writing How to Respond When Someone Takes Credit for Your Work for HBR: 2. Take time to calm down Calling someone out right away, when emotions are high, can be a “big mistake,” Uzzi says. So take some time to regroup and let your feelings settle. But don’t wait so long to address the issue that it’s no longer relevant or memorable when you bring it up. You don’t want your colleague saying, “I don’t even remember what you’re talking about?!” 3. Assess the severity Dillon explains that most people are “only interested in making themselves look good.” This means that their taking credit for your work is sometimes simply an oversight! Consider the possibility that your colleague’s behavior might be unintentional. Then, consider: How much did this incident matter? If the answer is “not a whole lot,” then consider letting it go. If you think it is a big deal, or you’re not sure, then take the next step. 4. Ask why Uzzi suggests that instead of making accusations, ask questions. For example, you might say, “I noticed that when you talked about the project you said ‘I’ instead of ‘we.’ Was that intentional?” [Note that in the original article, I encouraged a more indirect approach first. But now, I feel it’s better to cut to the chase without leveling an accusation.] 5. Remedy the situation It’s not enough to address the credit stealing. You also need to make the situation right, i.e. get the credit you deserve. If the other person recognizes their mistake, you might request that they send an email acknowledging your contributions, or you can both talk to your manager to set the record straight. 6. Be proactive about preventing it from happening again How can you make sure you get credit in the future? If you feel like you’re being systematically undermined, Dillon suggests talking to your boss or another manager. And Uzzi’s research shows that in collaborative projects, it’s important to agree upfront on allocation, and even write down a plan for how people will get credit. Never assume the roles are clear to everyone! 7. Model good credit sharing You can set the right tone by giving credit where it’s due. For example, Uzzi likes to add a slide at the end of his presentations with the name of every contributor. He tries to give his collaborators the deck beforehand and ask, “Does it give appropriate credit?” I love this approach! Check out the full article for more concrete examples and detail. One important note about the article: I wrote it nine years ago and regret not including some of the important nuances around gender and credit stealing. This is a topic that my Women at Work colleagues explored in an early episode of the podcast: The Art of Claiming Credit . I highly recommend listening to it to learn more about the ways that gender bias influences who gets credit and why. Now, I’m curious: if you’ve been in this situation, what helped you to get out of it? Did you decide to let it go, or did you say something? My Latest Book The paperback edition of “Getting Along” came out globally yesterday! Get your copy here (this link will go to your local Amazon page.) To my US and Canadian friends, the paperback version isn't available in those regions just yet but stay tuned. Event Women at Work is back on May 16 for our second live virtual gathering! Amy B. and I are thrilled to invite you to an engaging half-day of conversations. We have a stellar speaker line-up including DEI strategist Lily Zheng, organizational psychologist Ruchi Sinha, and career expert Dorie Clark. You can learn more and get your tickets here: Women at Work Live! Speaking I’m writing this newsletter from (cold, gray) London. The weather has not deterred me though! I was up in Cambridge on Monday and had a lovely fireside chat at the Cambridge University Press. The event was hosted by their Gender Balance, Pride, and Women in Leadership Groups. It was an honor to speak with them. Then, yesterday, I did a workshop as part of the FT’s Women in Business Forum. I could’ve answered questions from that smart, engaged group of women all day long. Some pictures below. Amy Gallo Previous Previous There’s no such thing as a conflict-free utopia Next Next Negative feelings are normal! Here’s how to process them. AMY GALLO Site About Books Reading Lists Quiz Speaking Media Links Contact Speaking Inquiry Media Kit Newsletter HBR Podcast Join Amy's email list to get access to this exclusive content. If you’re already a subscriber, submit your info below. First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up Thank you! Sign up for Amy’s Newsletter First Name Last Name Email Address Sign Up Thank you! Copyright © Amy Gallo. All Rights Reserved. By Agentis Partners .
