NORMAL_WEB_CAPTURE 2026-09-19T17:27:00Z
Transport: web.open, normal source route; no proxy or alternate transport.

SOURCE: Google Play Help — Use Google Play Protect to help keep your apps safe & your data private
URL: https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/2812853?hl=en
Crawled: 2026-09-19
L17: # Use Google Play Protect to help keep your apps safe & your data private
L19: Google Play Protect checks your apps and devices for harmful behavior.
L20: It runs a safety check on apps from the Google Play Store before you download them.
L21: It checks your device for potentially harmful apps from other sources. These harmful apps are sometimes called malware.
L22: It warns you about potentially harmful apps.
L23: It may deactivate or remove harmful apps from your device.
L36: Important: Google Play Protect is on by default, but you can turn it off. For security, we recommend that you always keep Google Play Protect on.
L58: Google Play Protect checks apps when you install them. It also periodically scans your device. If it finds a potentially harmful app, it might:
L60: Send you a notification. To remove the app, tap the notification, then tap Uninstall.
L61: Disable the app until you uninstall it.
L62: Remove the app automatically. In most cases, if a harmful app has been detected, you will get a notification saying the app was removed.

SOURCE: Android Help — Learn about restricted settings
URL: https://support.google.com/android/answer/12623953?hl=en
Crawled: 2026-09-19
L17: # Learn about restricted settings
L19: When you install an app on an Android device, you control app permissions. Permissions let you choose which capabilities or info that an app can use.
L21: Harmful apps might ask you to change settings that put your device or data at risk. To protect you from harmful apps, some device settings may be restricted when you install an app. These restricted settings can’t be changed unless you allow restricted settings.
L24: Scammers use various methods to trick people into downloading harmful apps to get to their personal data.
L28: Unexpected messages should raise suspicion. Fraudsters often send convincing text messages or emails.
L29: ### The app insists you change a device setting
L31: Apps typically explain why a permission or setting must be changed before it asks you to change them. Requests made by harmful apps are often unexplained or don’t make sense.
L39: If you’re unsure about an app you've been told to download, go to the official website of the company or organization. You can also search for the app on an app store you trust, like Google Play.
L47: When you enable restricted settings, you allow apps to get access to sensitive info that could put your personal data at risk. We don’t recommend that you allow restricted settings unless you trust the app developer.
L48: Some legitimate apps might ask you to enable restricted settings. For example, an app that’s designed to support people with disabilities might ask you to turn on accessibility settings. With access to accessibility settings, the app can read content on your screen and interact with apps on your behalf.
