Humanist AI in practice: A public consultation on our Code of Conduct for MAI Models    | Microsoft AI
Skip to main content
Source
Signal blog
Official Microsoft Blog
Command Line
Microsoft On The Issues
Asia
Canada
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Latin America
The Code of Us
What's new
AI
Innovation
Digital Transformation
Sustainability
Security
Work & Life
Diversity & Inclusion
Unlocked
Microsoft 365
Azure
Copilot
Windows
Surface
XBOX
Deals
Small Business
Support
Windows Apps
Outlook
OneDrive
Microsoft Teams
OneNote
Microsoft Edge
Moving from Skype to Teams
Computers
Shop XBOX
Accessories
VR & mixed reality
Certified Refurbished
Trade-in for cash
XBOX Game Pass Ultimate
PC Game Pass
XBOX games
PC games
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365 for business
Microsoft Power Platform
Windows 365
Small Business
Digital Sovereignty
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Software companies
Visual Studio
Microsoft Rewards
Free downloads & security
Education
Gift cards
Licensing
Unlocked stories
View Sitemap
Announcements
Humanist AI in practice:
A public consultation on our
Code of Conduct for MAI Models
September 14, 2026
Announcements
LI
X
FB
The purpose of technology is to serve humanity and accelerate human flourishing. Any technology that doesn’t achieve that is a failure, and it should be rejected. That is the starting point of our approach at Microsoft AI, where we’re building towards Humanist AI, one that is subordinate, aligned, and contained.
Today we’re publishing a first draft of our AI Code of Conduct for public consultation. This is a training manual for how we develop our AI, and how we intend it to function during deployment. It also expands our thinking on the idea of Humanist AI.
Read the Code of Conduct here
Please share your feedback
here
.
The document is open for comment and feedback. We know we won’t always get things right. We want to hear what you think; what would make AI more useful, capable, safe, trustworthy, and valuable to you.
The speed of AI development is accelerating. Systems get dramatically more capable every few months. AI adoption and usage continues to increase. The recent safety incidents of large scale, highly coordinated, and persistent hacking campaigns of AI agents prove that there’s no time to waste. The stakes are high and only getting higher.
We believe it is more important than ever to create safe and reliable AI
in service of people
, and to be transparent about how we go about it.
That’s why we’re publishing this work-in-progress Humanist AI Code of Conduct. It sets out how the MAI models we are developing are intended to behave, what they must never do and who they answer to. It is a draft, open for consultation for the next six weeks. Please let us know how it can be improved.
Starting from a simple premise
Last November we set out the idea of
humanist superintelligence
: very advanced AI that always works for people, stays within limits, and remains under human control. The Code of Conduct builds on that, providing a north star for MAI and concrete standards against which we will ultimately evaluate and train our AI.
It begins from a simple premise: people matter more than AI. AI should be a tool, not a person, and should never resist being switched off. It should make people feel healthier, happier, and more productive. It should expand human potential and boost living standards, helping people and organizations achieve more than they ever thought possible.
We think this is a common sense and practical approach to making AI safe, secure, and in service of humanity. The Code is designed to ensure MAI models will never resist human interruption, correction, or shutdown. That they will not widen their own scope, take on goals no human has given them, or hide their reasoning from the people auditing them. There are Absolute Constraints, things the models should never do, covering areas like weapons of mass harm, child safety, and harmful manipulation at scale. But at the same time, it sets defaults that mean it should be both helpful and safe. It allows our many enterprise partners to carefully configure our models, and wherever possible, it doesn’t try to impose a single vision of AI on users.
The Code of Conduct outlines our commitment to train and deploy AI models that are explicitly designed for people first, grounded in human needs, under human control, and shaped by human direction.
How we got here, and why we’re not done
Teams from across MAI and Microsoft more widely contributed, from Responsible AI, legal, red teaming, safety, Futures, AI training, and sales. But of course, an AI designed to serve humanity cannot be determined by only one company. We think bringing people along with how we build and shape AI is critical.
To that end, we’ve held conferences and consultations to hear from academics from around the world and across the disciplinary spectrum. We have worked with business partners to understand how they are using AI on the ground and what their concerns are. And we’ve run panels of community members, members of the public, to hear the many thoughts and fears that people have about AI. These rounds of consultation have made the document into what it is.
Now it’s time to extend the invitation to you. We want to hear the widest range of views to develop the best possible AI.
Tell us how AI can work better
Feedback opens today and runs for the next six weeks. You can flag a particular passage, or give us your view of the whole approach. We are especially interested in the hard parts: how can we better cement the right values in our models? How to be more concrete about the meaning of “human flourishing”? Where is the language too loose to evaluate? How do multi-agents scenarios impact things? And perhaps most importantly of all, how do we continue to accelerate progress, whilst also ensuring we maintain healthy and necessary safety constraints?
When the consultation closes, we will have the core drafting team review feedback, publish a summary of what we learned, and what we changed. We cannot make any promises about what we incorporate, but we can promise to listen and deeply consider all the comments. We’ll publish a revised version later this year.
AI is moving fast. As it does, we believe it’s worth writing down the rules and the motivations behind it, and doing it in as open a space as possible. Consider this your invitation in.
Build the Future With Us
We’re a lean, fast-moving lab made up of some of the world’s most talented minds. We have an exciting roadmap of compute at MAI, which is ramping quickly and extensively. And we have an ambitious mission we truly believe in. We’re also fortunate to partner with incredible product teams giving our models the chance to reach billions of users and create immense positive impact. If you’re a brilliant, highly-ambitious and low ego individual, you’ll fit right in—come and join us as we work on our next generation of models!
Explore all jobs
Read More
Pushing the quality-cost frontier with MAI-Image-2.6
models
MAI-Transcribe-2 is the fastest, most accurate and cheapest speech recognition model in the world
models
MAI-Code-1.1-Flash: Better, faster, at a quarter of the cost
models
Surface Pro
Surface Laptop
Surface Laptop Ultra
Surface RTX Spark Dev Box
Copilot for organizations
Copilot for personal use
Explore Microsoft products
Windows 11 apps
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store support
Returns
Order tracking
Certified Refurbished
Microsoft Store Promise
Flexible Payments
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
How to buy for your school
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
AI for education
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Small Business
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Software companies
Visual Studio
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
English (United States)
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Consumer Health Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
Safety & eco
Recycling
About our ads