Clean Air Act Resources for Data Centers | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
A locked padlock
) or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please
click here to see any active alerts
.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental Topics
Air
Bed Bugs
Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide
Emergency Response
Environmental Information by Location
Health
Land, Waste, and Cleanup
Lead
Mold
Radon
Research
Science Topics
Water Topics
A-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & Regulations
By Business Sector
By Topic
Compliance
Enforcement
Guidance
Laws and Executive Orders
Regulations
Report a Violation
Report a Violation
Environmental Violations
Fraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPA
Our Mission and What We Do
Headquarters Offices
Regional Offices
Labs and Research Centers
Newsroom
Planning, Budget, and Results
Organization Chart
EPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Stationary Sources of Air Pollution
Clean Air Act Resources for Data Centers
Alert
Spring and Summer 2026 DOE 202(c) Emergency Orders
In spring and summer 2026, the Department of Energy (DOE), acting pursuant to Federal Power Act section 202(c), issued
a series of emergency orders
directing Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) and other energy providers to take certain actions during periods of high demand due to extremely hot weather conditions to prevent firm load interruption, which could lead to adverse public health and safety impacts. In these orders, DOE directed certain entities to maximize the generation output levels of specified units and/or to require data centers and other large load customers to operate their back-up generation (
e.g.,
stationary engines) as a last resort before declaring an Energy Emergency Alert Level 3.
For stationary emergency engines subject to the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines (
40 CFR part 63 subpart ZZZZ
) and Standards of Performance for Stationary Compression Ignition and Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines (40 CFR part 60 subparts
IIII
and
JJJJ
), the EPA considers operation under such emergency orders as operation in an emergency situation, so there is no limit on use of the emergency stationary engines during the period of the emergency.
See
40 CFR 63.6640(f)(1); 40 CFR 60.4211(f)(1); 40 CFR 60.4243(d)(1)).
Therefore, any hours of engine operation pursuant to these emergency orders do
not
count toward the 50 hours that certain emergency engines are allowed to operate in non-emergency situations under 40 CFR 63.6640(f)(3)-(4), 40 CFR 60.4211(f)(3), and 40 CFR 60.4243(d)(3).
President Trump’s Executive Order 14179, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (AI),” boldly calls for America to retain dominance in technological innovation through the creation of the 2025 “America’s AI Action Plan.”
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), under the leadership of Administrator Lee Zeldin, is committed to executing President Trump’s directive through Administrator Zeldin’s “Powering the Great American Comeback” initiative, two pillars of which specify work to make the United States the AI capital of the world and promote cooperative federalism with local communities, Tribal and state partners. Cutting overly burdensome red tape will help power AI Infrastructure development nationally. Additionally, by streamlining reviews under the Clean Air Act (CAA), innovators and infrastructure developers can move more confidently and quickly.
This website provides a central location for those looking to learn more about CAA regulations, guidance, and technical tools that can assist with modeling, air quality permitting, and regulatory interpretations relevant for data centers and AI facilities. In addition, and in line with EPA’s commitment to advance cooperative federalism, EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation staff are available to consult with permit reviewing authorities and individual sources on a case-by-case basis to identify existing data, models, and tools to demonstrate compliance and, as appropriate, exercise discretion and flexibilities in the permitting processes. Air agencies, permit applicants, and other affected parties seeking to obtain EPA assistance should contact their appropriate
EPA Regional office
.
By providing easy and comprehensible access to these resources, EPA is furthering its efforts to provide transparency for data centers developers, local communities and Tribes across the U.S. This will speed up the ability to build data centers and the necessary backup generation. These efforts will help decrease the cost of new facilities while preserving the reliability of our electrical grid and keeping electricity rates down. This ultimately will reduce the cost-of-living for Americans who rely on data centers and AI for their daily lives—from ensuring food at the grocery store to photos on their phones.
News and Updates
EPA Issues Clarification on Islanded Power Generators and Acid Rain Program Provisions (pdf)
(869.69 KB, July 16, 2026)
(July 16, 2026)
EPA Proposes Redefining “Begin Actual Construction” to Remove Unnecessary Impediments to Building and Advance Economic Progress
(May 11, 2026)
EPA Hosts Roundtable Discussion with Data Center Coalition on Clean Air Resources and Energy Reliability
(
January 23, 2026)
EPA Finalizes Amendments to the New Source Performance Standards for Stationary Combustion Turbines and Stationary Gas Turbines
(January 15, 2025)
EPA Announces Permitting Reform to Provide Clarity, Expedite Construction of Essential Power Generation, Reshore Manufacturing
(September 9, 2025)
ICYMI: Administrator Zeldin in Fox News: “Trump's EPA Clearing the Regulatory Path for America to Dominate the Global AI Revolution”
(July 17, 2025)
EPA Issues Clarification to Help Power Data Centers, Ensure U.S. Is the AI Capital of the World
(May 1, 2025)
Data Centers Team
Primary Contacts:
Laura Bunte, Associate Division Director, Permitting and Program Support Division (
OSAP
)
Nick Hutson, Acting Deputy Division Director, Industrial Processing and Power Division (
OCAP
)
Contact the data centers team at:
CAADataCenters@epa.gov
Upcoming Actions
Revision to “Begin Actual Construction” in the New Source Review Preconstruction Permitting Program
(Proposed Rule)
Regulatory Resources
Power sources are a major concern for planning data centers and AI infrastructure. Stationary combustion turbines and stationary engines – common sources of primary and backup power for data centers – are subject to various new source performance standards (NSPS) for certain air emissions and national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP). Portable engines (known as nonroad engines) are also subject to air emission standards.
Below are links to more information on the rules that apply to these power sources, including links to
Federal Register
notices, guidance documents, and compliance requirements.
Stationary Combustion Turbines
NSPS for Stationary Gas and Combustion Turbines
NESHAP for Stationary Combustion Turbines
Stationary Engines
NSPS for Stationary Compression Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
NSPS for Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engines
NESHAP for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
Nonroad Engines
Emission Standards for Nonroad Compression Ignition Engines
Emission Standards for Nonroad Spark Ignition Engines
Air Permitting Resources
Understanding how EPA has handled permitting in the past based on the agency’s statutory obligations, will allow those looking to develop data centers and AI facilities to see what permitting requirements they may face.
State and local air agencies issue most air permits for data centers, under programs approved as meeting minimum requirements established by the CAA and EPA regulations.
Below are EPA guidance documents and letters that may assist with air quality permitting.
Potential To Emit (PTE) for Emergency Generators
– This guidance addresses the determination of PTE for emergency electrical generators.
Calculating PTE for Emergency Generators (September 1995)
Limiting PTE in New Source Permitting
– This guidance addresses conditions in construction permits that can legally limit a source’s potential to emit to minor or
de minimis
levels in the New Source Review (NSR) preconstruction permitting program.
Guidance on Limiting PTE in New Source Permitting (June 1989)
Limiting PTE Under CAA Section 112 and Title V
– This guidance provides the framework under which sources may legally avoid requirements of CAA section 112 and title V.
Options for Limiting the PTE of a Stationary Source Under CAA Section 112 and Title V  (January 1995)
Aggregation and “Adjacency”
– The following links provide information on NSR regulatory actions regarding aggregation and site-specific correspondence, as well as a memorandum regarding EPA’s interpretation of regulations that determine the scope and extent of a “stationary source” for the major NSR preconstruction permit program under title I of the CAA and the scope and extent of a “major source.”
Site Specific Correspondence
Meadowbrook Correspondence and Common Control (April 2018)
Ameresco Correspondence and Common Control (October 2018)
EPA Memorandum
Interpreting "Adjacent" for NSR and Title V Source Determinations in All Industries Other Than Oil and Gas (November 2019)
Begin Actual Construction
– This letter responds to a request to start certain construction activities before receiving a PSD/Nonattainment NSR permit for their semiconductor device manufacturing plant. Attachments to incoming letters from the permitting authority and the facility are included as appendices.
TSMC Arizona Begin Actual Construction - EPA Response Letter (September 2025)
Nonattainment New Source Review Emissions Offsets
– This guidance clarifies when and how emission reduction credits (ERCs) must be shown to be federally enforceable before a permitting authority issues a Nonattainment New Source Review (NNSR) preconstruction air permit.
Nonattainment New Source Review Emission Reduction Credits (ERC) Guidance (July 2026)
Particulate Matter (PM) Adjustment in Method 202 Test Results
– This memorandum outlines the prerequisite conditions and adjustment approach for refining the quantification of condensable PM when using Method 202, particularly in scenarios where both ammonia and sulfur dioxide are present in the effluent stream. This approach is appropriate only under certain conditions specified in the memorandum and is intended for use in the context of NSR permitting on a prospective basis. It can help determine the applicability of NSR permitting requirements, support a permit application, or derive emissions limitations in a permit.
Condensable PM Adjustment for Ammonium Sulfate Formation in M202 Test Results (November 2024)
New Source Review Plan Requirements and Federal Regulations
Plan Requirements for Nonattainment NSR
Plan Requirements for PSD
PSD Federal Regulations
Federal Minor NSR Program in Indian Country
Air Permitting Around the Nation
Clean Air Act (CAA) Permitting Around the Nation
- Find information about CAA permitting authorities, focus topics, and current actions in your area.
Other Relevant EPA Webpages
EPA NSR webpage
NSR Regulatory Actions
NSR Policy and Guidance Document Index
NSR Relevant Guidance Index
Title V Operating Permit Policy and Guidance Document Index
Title V Relevant Guidance Index
AirKnowledge
New Source Review Program module
Title V Permitting Program module
Modeling Guidance
Over the years, EPA has released several modeling guidance documents and clarification memoranda that help developers, local communities and Tribes demonstrate compliance with CAA air quality standards as they build. To help address some requirements in CAA section 165, EPA established the
Guideline on Air Quality Models
("Appendix W" to 40 CFR Part 51, or
Guideline
)
which provides models, tools, and methods for use in regulatory air quality programs under the CAA and lists EPA’s preferred air quality models for use in the PSD program. The
Guideline
, established in 1978 and last revised in November 2024, is periodically revised through regulatory action to update the preferred air quality models and the methods applied by permit applicants to meet program requirements for PSD demonstrations. Below are additional modeling resources to assist with permit applications and demonstrating compliance.
Modeling Guidance Documents
– EPA has also released several modeling guidance documents and clarification memoranda that support compliance demonstration modeling of various emissions sources including those associated with data centers.
Clean Air Act Permit Modeling Guidance
Additional Clarification Regarding Applicability of Appendix W Modeling Guidance for the 1-hour NO2 NAAQS (PDF)
– This 2011 memorandum provides further clarification and guidance on the application of Appendix W guidance for the 1-hour NO
2
National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS).
Air Quality Analysis Checklist
– The NSR/PSD
Air Quality Analysis Checklist
supports permit authorities and applicants in developing PSD compliance demonstrations by identifying necessary elements for an appropriate air quality assessment.
Modeling Protocol and Data Input Flexibility
– Modeling the fate and transport of air emissions can be a complex exercise involving the proper use of scientific tools and expert judgment by qualified professionals. Nearly every modeling effort involves unique inputs and case-specific considerations. EPA rules and guidance provide significant flexibility to permit authorities and applicants to properly characterize both routine and unique situations.
Basic Model Selection Choices
– Permit applicants have flexibility to appropriately characterize the configuration and nature of the new or modifying source emissions (elevated, ground-level, temporal profile, emission rates, etc.). EPA’s
preferred dispersion models
, as established in the
Guideline
, provide a scientifically credible treatment and allow modeling point, area, volume, and line source types with varying degrees of specificity to best represent the new or modifying source.
Alternative Models and Techniques
– EPA’s
Guideline
also allows for alternative models and techniques to be approved for use in demonstrating compliance in situations when the preferred dispersion models may not be appropriate for a case-specific situation. In such cases, the requirements found in the
Guideline
, Section 3.2 should be closely followed, including early engagement with the respective EPA Regional Office and the
EPA Air Quality Model Clearinghouse
.
Multi-stage Demonstration Approach
– EPA recommends a multi-stage approach for demonstrating compliance with air quality standards in the PSD program, starting with a source impact analysis and subsequently, if necessary, a cumulative impact analysis. Each stage involves increasing complexity and rigor, as required, to fully demonstrate that a new or modifying source will not cause or contribute to a violation of the NAAQS.
Area-wide Background Pollutant Concentrations
– As part of the recent regulatory revisions to the
Guideline
, EPA released the
Guidance on Developing Background Concentrations for Use in Modeling Demonstrations
in November 2024 that provides a framework for developing background pollutant concentrations for cumulative assessments under the PSD program. This guidance reinforces the need to exercise discretion in selecting representative monitoring data and determining the “few” nearby sources to explicitly model.
Delegated and approved permitting authorities and permit applicants have discretion in developing representative background concentrations for cumulative assessments. Appropriate entities can adjust monitoring data to be representative under the
Additional Methods, Determinations, and Analyses to Modify Air Quality Data Beyond Exceptional Events
memorandum with justification found in EPA’s
Guideline
.
Other Guidance and Fact Sheets
Use of Backup Generators to Maintain the Reliability of the Electric Grid
Implementation Q&A on RICE NESHAP and Stationary CI and SI NSPS
Stationary Sources of Air Pollution
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Regulations
expand or collapse the child menu
Industry Sector Groups
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)
expand or collapse the child menu
Area Source Standards
Risk and Technology Review Status
New Source Performance Standards
Good Neighbor Plan for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards
Small Business Assistance Program
Contact Us About Stationary Sources of Air Pollution
Contact Us About Stationary Sources of Air Pollution
to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on September 9, 2026
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.
