Medicare’s AI Push Snarls Patients and Doctors in Errors and Delays - KFF Health News
Skip to main content
The independent source for health policy research, polling, and news.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Donate
Search
Search for:
Trump 2.0
Back
Trump 2.0
Agency Watch
State Watch
Rural Health Payout
Public Health
Back
Public Health
Vaccines
CDC & Disease
Environmental Health
All Public Health
Audio Reports
Back
Audio Reports
What the Health?
Healthcare Helpline
KFF Health News Minute
An Arm and a Leg
Health Hub
HealthQ
Silence in Sikeston
Epidemic
All Audio
Special Reports
Back
Special Reports
Bill Of The Month
Common Ground
Diagnosis: Debt
The Body Shops
Priced Out
Guns, Race, and Profit
Broken Rehab
Dead Zone
Denied
Opioid Settlement Tracking
Eleven Minutes
All Special Reports
More Topics
Back
More Topics
Elections
Healthcare Costs
Insurance
Prescription Drugs
Health Industry
Immigration
Reproductive Health
Technology
Rural Health
Race and Health
Aging
Mental Health
Affordable Care Act
Medicare
Medicaid
Children’s Health
All Topics
Medicare Advantage Billing Probe
School Vaccine Mandates
Weight Loss Drugs Coverage
Opioid Settlement Money
Abortion Pill Access
Search
Search for:
Medicare’s AI Push Snarls Patients and Doctors in Errors and Delays
Share This Story
Republish this story
Copy link
Print
Email
Medicare’s AI Push Snarls Patients and Doctors in Errors and Delays
By
Darius Tahir
June 23, 2026
Republish
(iStock/Getty Images)
Bill Curry, 65, raises cattle on the same land in rural Oklahoma once owned by his father and generations before him. Each quarter, for several years, he has made the 2½-hour drive to Oklahoma City for an epidural in his spine to treat his back pain.
This story also ran on
CBS News
. It can be
republished for free
.
But this year, because of a new Medicare program, Curry has traveled a little more often.
In February, during one trip, he was told unexpectedly that he needed preapproval for the procedure. Then he went again a month or so later to get the injection, for a total of 10 hours on the road. His clinic wanted him to come in a third time, which they had never asked of him before. That appointment was “just to fill out a piece of paper to tell them how you feel again,” Curry said, so he hasn’t gone.
In January, Oklahoma became one of six states to begin a
pilot program testing the use of preapprovals
in traditional Medicare, the federal health insurance program for people 65 and older or with disabilities. Medicare had previously eschewed the practice — also known as prior authorization — which requires patients or someone on their medical team to seek insurance approval before proceeding with certain procedures, tests, and prescriptions.
Epidurals like Curry’s are among 13 medical services subject to the new program because the Trump administration says they’re prone to fraud or misuse. Powered by artificial intelligence, the program — called the Wasteful and Inappropriate Service Reduction Model, or WISeR — is intended to save the federal government money and protect patients from potentially unsafe or unneeded care.
Yet early reviews from Oklahoma and the other pilot states — Arizona, New Jersey, Ohio, Texas, and Washington — suggest WISeR’s rollout has not been smooth. Patients, doctors, and other healthcare professionals who spoke with KFF Health News say the effort has created confusion, errors, long wait times, and stress. Some described the rollout as “horrendous” and say people enrolled in Medicare in the pilot states are now getting ensnared in the same red tape as those with private insurance.
One key concern is that it all happened too hastily. WISeR was
announced in June 2025
and launched in mid-January.
That was “quicker than normal” for the federal government, said Todd Baker, who recently stepped down as CEO of the Ohio State Medical Association. Doctors “just sort of had to figure it out,” added Jeb Shepard, director of policy at the Washington State Medical Association.
Government contractors have also acknowledged the rapid pace. “We’ve had an aggressive rollout from the time of being notified to going live,” said Jeremy Friese, CEO of Humata Health, the vendor for Oklahoma. Tech executives servicing other states have said they were still adding features to their products in the spring.
Abe Sutton, director of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, which is administering the program, didn’t comment on the rollout schedule. But he said in a statement that the goal of these reforms is to ensure that prior authorization is efficient, fast, and streamlined.
“The model aims to reduce inappropriate care without delaying appropriate care,” he said.
Mehmet Oz, the leader of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services,
told NewsNation in December
that they were “rolling out some prior authorization on abused practices.”
“The purpose of these is not to deny care,” Oz continued. “It’s to make sure you get the care you need and deserve, not the care some unscrupulous doctor wants to use on you.”
Email Sign-Up
Subscribe to KFF Health News' free Morning Briefing.
Your Email Address
Sign Up
Medicare has struggled in recent years with suspected fraud associated with particular services. The Department of Health and Human Services’ inspector general
warned in September that the program’s
spending on skin substitutes, for example, had surged nearly 700% over two years, raising “major concerns about fraud, waste, and abuse.” Skin substitutes are among the
13 therapies
currently subject to review under WISeR.
The program also imposes prior authorization requirements for kyphoplasty, a surgery for spinal fractures, which a report by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
flagged as overused
.
Sutton acknowledged, however, that “the percentage of providers committing waste, fraud, and abuse is small.”
Consumers and clinicians largely detest prior authorization. Even as federal health officials test the process for Medicare, the Trump administration is
trying to scale it back
for those with private insurance. According to a
KFF poll
conducted in January, 69% of insured adults consider prior authorization a burden for care.
Through WISeR, doctors and their staff log in to online portals to submit medical records that justify the procedures. Using artificial intelligence, the systems quickly approve applications that meet the program’s criteria, Friese, Humata’s chief executive, told KFF Health News. He said there is an “immediate yes” in 88% of cases for which clinical data supports an approval.
CMS has touted the process as one in which decisions are returned within 72 hours. After that, clinicians receive a “universal tracking number,” which allows them to schedule the procedure and get paid. In practice, however, participants say the process is anything but easy.
The University of Washington’s medical system alone had nearly 100 patients waiting earlier this year for epidural injections due to WISeR-related delays,
according to an April report
from the office of U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) that drew on hospital association data. “Now, patients are subject to delays or denials which did not exist prior to the WISeR Model,” the report said.
Curry, the Oklahoma cattle farmer, said he might go to Kansas for future treatments to avoid the approval process. Dorota Gribbin, a New Jersey-based physical medicine and rehabilitation physician, said that by the time authorization came for one of her patients who needed a back pain procedure, the patient had gone to the hospital for more expensive care.
Jennifer Valle, a precertification and insurance supervisor at Clinical Radiology of Oklahoma, said when it comes to kyphoplasties, there has been a lot of “nitpicking” from reviewers. Other times, information her practice provides to CMS gets overlooked, she said, and reviewers ask for imaging that’s already in the file.
Claims with no problems are supposed to be paid within 15 days, said James Webb, a musculoskeletal radiologist in Tulsa, Oklahoma, who has also been frustrated by the prior approval and reimbursement process for kyphoplasties. “Six- to eight-week delays is what we’ve been seeing,” he said.
“It’s been horrendous,” said Jerry Sobel, a Phoenix-area pain management doctor. “Right from the beginning, there seemed to be no organization.” Sobel said that as of May, he hadn’t gotten paid by Medicare for nine epidurals.
“We continuously monitor operations and work closely with stakeholders to address questions and improve the provider experience,” said Sundar Subramanian, the CEO of Zyter, which has the contract for Arizona.
During an April webinar, another Zyter executive acknowledged a large backlog in payments stretching to January. Those backlogs “are currently being resolved,” Medicare’s Sutton said, without providing further detail.
When asked about other issues — including what doctors suspect are AI-driven errors — Medicare’s Sutton said the agency appreciates “feedback on provider experience.” It will be used “to help providers better understand WISeR processes,” he said.
Although CMS vendors say humans make the final decisions on approvals, doctors and their staffs believe artificial intelligence is playing a large role in the process and that denials are sometimes the result of AI hallucinations that garble or make up information.
One Arizona doctor, who wasn’t authorized by his practice to speak, recalled a denial saying his patient wasn’t eligible for procedures in the thoracic region, or mid-back. The patient needed an injection to the neck. Webb, the Oklahoma radiologist, documented four times that a patient lacked numbness, and yet his WISeR application was still denied, citing numbness, which, in the reviewer’s interpretation, would rule out the spinal surgery procedure.
Friese, Humata’s CEO, said he hasn’t heard about any AI hallucinations.
The process is also raising government costs. With more rejections, more appeals are being filed with Medicare’s administrative contractors. The government pays the contractors to handle the appeals, and Medicare’s Sutton acknowledged that the agency has “accounted for potential changes in the volume of Medicare appeals because of the WISeR program and its associated costs.”
Eighty-four percent of commercial insurers already use AI tools, according to a survey released in 2025 by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, though they have consistently said AI isn’t used to deny prior authorization requests.
Its use in Medicare risks introducing friction and frustration into the program — and piling costs onto its beneficiaries. Prior authorization saves money for insurers partly by making patients pay a price in wait times and inconvenience, said Miranda Yaver, a University of Pittsburgh health policy researcher studying the technique.
“People will end up getting ensnared in a lot of red tape, having to be on hold, and getting rerouted,” she said. She often wonders whether prior authorization simply shifts costs to patients and doctors, rather than saving them.
Some doctors involved in Medicare’s prior authorization experiment believe it will inevitably expand beyond a few services officials in Washington consider fraud-prone.
“Everybody knows that if this pilot project works, it will be prior auth for basically all procedures,” said Mary Clarke, a family practice physician in Stillwater, Oklahoma. “If they can show that they can save money, then that’s going to be extrapolated and rolled out to other procedures and multiple other things in other states.”
When asked whether CMS is considering expansion of its prior authorization pilot, Sutton said in his statement that there are “currently no changes” considered for the list of services subject to the WISeR program, “but CMS continues to assess whether any changes are warranted.”
Do you have an experience with prior authorization you’d like to share?
Click here
to tell KFF Health News your story.
KFF Health News Southern correspondent Lauren Sausser contributed to this report.
Darius Tahir
DariusT@kff.org
Related Topics
Health Industry
Insurance
Medicare
Rural Health
Midwest Bureau
Mountain States Bureau
Southern Bureau
Technology
Trump Administration
Denied
Arizona
Kansas
Washington
Ohio
Texas
New Jersey
Oklahoma
We Want To Hear From You
Do you have a question or comment for the KFF Health News team?
Contact Us
More from
KFF Health News
Deadly Denials
AI Will Soon Have a Say in Approving or Denying Medicare Treatments
A pilot program testing the use of artificial intelligence to expand prior authorization decisions in Medicare has providers, politicians, and researchers questioning Trump administration promises to curb an unpopular practice that has frustrated patients and their doctors.
By
Lauren Sausser
and
Darius Tahir
Sept. 25, 2025
These 3 Policy Moves Are Likely To Change Health Care for Older People
By
Paula Span
Jan. 23, 2026
Patients Wary of Governments, Companies Pushing AI as a Rural Healthcare Solution
By
Arielle Zionts
,
Darius Tahir
, and
Oona Zenda
Aug. 11, 2026
Insurers Hedge on Trump-Backed Pledge To Improve Denials Process
By
Lauren Sausser
and
Renuka Rayasam
July 17, 2026
Podcasts
Special Reports
Morning Briefing
About Us
Donate
Staff
Republish Our Content
Contact Us
Follow Us
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Facebook
X
Bluesky
TikTok
RSS
Sign up for emails
Join our email list for regular updates based on your personal preferences.
Sign up
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
© 2026 KFF