AskCA | Conditions of Use
Skip to main content
About
Research participant rights
Privacy policy
Privacy notice on collections
Conditions of use
© 2026 State of California
AskCA
California government AI assistant
Prototype
Sign up for pilot testing
Conditions of use
This website was authored by the Office of Data and Innovation.
Updated: March 23, 2026
When you visit an Office of Data and Innovation (ODI) website or Artificial Intelligence (AI) Assistant such as AskCA, you accept our conditions of use. If you do not agree with these conditions of use, please exit AskCA. The conditions of use are subject to change without notice. They reflect ODI’s current business practices.
The AskCA AI assistant might have links to other websites. Those other websites will have their own privacy and use policies. You should review those policies as you access other sites
ODI provides AskCA and its information as a public service. We monitor AskCA to ensure its operation and the functioning of its features. Anyone using AskCA consents to such monitoring.
Unauthorized attempts to modify any information stored on AskCA, to defeat or circumvent security features, or to use AskCA for other than its intended purposes are prohibited and may result in criminal prosecution.
If you have any questions about privacy, read our
privacy policy
.
Information you send us
We may use information you send us to improve our services or to respond to you.
We may forward your information to other state employees who may be better able to help you. These employees may be part of a different state department. Except as required by law, we do not share information with non-state organizations.
We share information you give us only if necessary. If we use your information for statistical reporting, trend data, or investigative actions, we will remove any identifying information.
Security and monitoring
ODI, as developer and manager of this website, has taken steps to safeguard the integrity of this website infrastructure for our visitors’ safety. This includes, but is not limited to:
Limiting our data collection
Monitoring for resource availability and security risks, including unauthorized attempts to upload or change information
Auditing for security vulnerabilities and site performance and optimization
Encryption
Integrating security measures
Links to other sites
AskCA may have links to sites that the AI assistant surfaces that might be useful for you and which may provide services. When you visit another site, you are no longer on our site and are subject to the policies of the new site. We encourage you to review the policies of other sites before you visit them.
ODI is not responsible for the content or accessibility of other websites or external documents we link. If you access another website through a link from AskCA, you do so at your own risk.
We use this chatbot to quickly find government services without searching multiple websites. It is powered by Anthropic’s software, which collects and stores data. Anthropic must follow strict California state rules. Anthropic can’t sell or use your information for advertising. Your data is securely stored in United States data centers.
Limitation of liability
ODI values, but does not guarantee, the accuracy of content on AskCA.
Please keep the following in mind:
Check the Facts:
The AI can make mistakes. It might give you information that is wrong, out of date, or not right for your specific situation. Always double-check important info with the actual state agency.
No Guarantees:
We do not guarantee that the AI is 100% secure or that it will never have technical glitches.
Use at Your Own Risk:
We are not providing any official warranties. This means we aren't responsible if the AI gives an unexpected answer or if the service gets interrupted.
Do not Type in Sensitive Details:
Since this is an AI, please do not type in sensitive details including your Social Security number or private health information.
We welcome feedback on AskCA. You can report any errors or omissions by emailing us at
info@innovation.ca.gov
.
ODI makes no claims, promises, or guarantees about the absolute accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the contents of AskCA and expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in the contents of AskCA. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed, or statutory, including, but not limited to, the warranties of non-infringement of third party rights, title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and freedom from computer virus, is given with respect to the contents of this website or its links to other internet resources. References or links in this website to any specific commercial products, processes, or services, or the use of any trade, firm, or corporation name are for the information and convenience of the public, and do not constitute endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by ODI or the State of California, or its employees or agents.
Ownership
In general, information presented on AskCA, unless otherwise indicated, is in the public domain. You may distribute or copy it as permitted by law.
However, ODI uses copyrighted data (for example, images). These may require additional permissions before your use. You must get permission directly from the owning (or holding) sources to use any information on this website not owned or created by ODI.
ODI has the unlimited right to use for any purpose, free of any charge, all information submitted via this site except those submissions made under separate legal contract. ODI is free to use, for any purpose, any ideas, concepts, or techniques contained in information provided through this site.
Sign up for pilot testing
Drop files here to add them to the chat
